===============================================================================
FINAL FANTASY VII Training Companion

By Benjamin David Arcand (also known as "MetalGearSolidBoy")


Version 1.2


Date Started: 6/12/04
Date Completed: 7/28/04 (1.0 Finished)


===============================================================================



DISCLAIMER: This guide may only be used for private and personal use, unless
you contact me via e-mail. Hopefully, I will respond to your request in a
positive way, but you never know. This guide is only permitted to be on
GameFAQs, and no other.


Copyright 2004 Benjamin David Arcand FAQs
All Rights Reserved.


QUICK VERSION HISTORY:

Version 1.0 (7/28/04)- Finished the FAQ. Disappointed that they misspelled the
word 'Training' in my Guide's title on GameFAQs. Seeks revenge (just kidding).

Version 1.1 (7/29/04)- Fixed a small amount of format/spelling/grammar errors.

Version 1.2 (8/4/04)- Changed the format a little. If you don't like the
change, e-mail me complaints. I also added some more Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQs).


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THIS GUIDE/FAQ?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


This guide's original intention was to help FFVII gamers decide where and when
to train at certain points in a game. Leveling up is not really a necessary
task to accomplish, as many people have beaten this game with average levels
around 28-34 and managed to maintain their sanity afterwards; however, a lot of
people feel the need to level up anyway, so that's where my guide comes in. I
will try to cover almost every aspect of training (in essence, money building,
leveling up, AP boosting, and Limit Unlocking). If you are playing for the
first time and don't know the controls, I would recommend that you either read
your FFVII Instruction Booklet or a FAQ/Walkthrough on this site for more
details, because I will not go through the basic controls. I do NOT believe in
such things as a 'Recommended Level'. Those are always open to controversy.
Perhaps it's your strategy that needs some brushing up, not your levels.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        HOW TO COMPREHEND THIS GUIDE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


In my Training Guide, I will go through all of the game's random encounter
areas in chronological order for the majority of the time. This means that I
will first start out in Reactor #1, then continue onward as if I'm playing the
game myself. So, you shouldn't see me going over the Ancient Forest area right
after I go over the World Map Area near Midgar. ^_^
Here is how I will go about doing my business in areas.

Area Name- What the place is called. I'll use the Menu name if it is specific
enough for you to get the picture.

Preparation- This would appear if you need to equip anything special or hold
certain items to make battling in the area a little easier. If you find that
your physical attacks are enough to do away with most of the monsters in the
area, then just ignore some of my recommendations.

Training Rating- Denoted in asterisks (*) This is how I rate the area for
overall training...

*-A Poor area to train for that point in the game
**-A Fair spot to train
***-An Okay place to train
****-A Great place to train
*****-This is pretty much the Best place to do all your battling at that point.

Monsters in the Area- This section will just tell you what monsters are going
to be in the area, and it gives their basic info (EXP, AP, Gil). If a monster
has a level with a multiple of four, I will mention that, too (The Enemy Skill
'Lv.4 Suicide' only works on enemies with levels that have multiples of four).
Enemy Skill attacks will be displayed in brackets [].

Monster Groups- This section will show the quantity of monsters appearing in
battles. It will also give you the EXP, AP, and Gil amounts that you will win
after you slay the specific group.

Monster Info- This section will give you an In-Depth look at monsters that may
have frightening abilities, good items to steal, strange attack patterns, etc.

Encounter Rate- This is my personal opinion on how often I seem to bump into
battles in a particular spot. It will be somewhat similar to my Training
Rating, with * meaning that it will take a long time to find a battle, and ***,
meaning you'll smash into battles quite quickly.

EXP Range- This will state the minimum Experience Points you'll get after a
battle, and the maximum EXP you'll earn after a battle.

AP Range- Same as EXP Range, but this time involving AP.

Gil Range- Same as EXP Range, but involving Gil.

EXP Average- This will state the average amount of EXP you will receive after a
battle in the particular area (Rounded to a reasonable amount). All of the
Averages assume that all enemy groups will appear at the same rate.

AP Average- Same as EXP Average, but this time involving AP.

Gil Average- Same as EXP Average, but this time involving Gil.

Battle Average- This will tell you how many battles you need to fight in an
area in order to get up to a certain level. I will go in level increments of 5,
because it would take up too much space putting it down for every level. The
simple formula is...

Battle Average= EXP needed to get to Level X divided by Average EXP per battle

For the Battle Average, I will be using Cloud's EXP Requirements (every
character has different EXP Requirements).

Did you notice how the Battle Average's battles don't build on each other?
That's because I've decided to use a different method of displaying this
information. It shows how many battles you need to fight to go up five specific
levels. For example, if your Cloud is at level 40, and you want to see how many
more battles you have to fight to get to level 45, you simply look at the part
of the chart that looks like this.

40-45: 90 battles

That means that you have to fight 90 more battles to get to level 45. It does
not mean that you only need to fight 90 battles to get from level 1 to level
45. Keep that in mind, and you will be less confused.

Average Number of Battles to Master 'Knights of the Round' Materia- Since the
KotR Materia takes the most AP to master, I thought this might give you an idea
of how many battles you need to fight in an area to master it.

Best spot to train in Area- Sometimes a larger amount of monsters or better
monsters are located in a specific part of an area. That part will be placed in
this sub-section.

Limit Training- This section will tell you if this is a good place to build
your limits up a notch. Since there are two ways to get new limits, I will try
to split up the info and strategies.

Anything Else I Can Think Of- Yup. This is here in case there is something I
ever need to point out. I probably won't use it, though.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BASIC TERMS YOU MIGHT WANT TO KNOW MORE ABOUT (FOR BEGINNERS)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Experience Points (EXP)- When you get enough of these, your characters will
'level-up', giving them stat boosts, HP and MP boosts, etc. The higher your
level, the more EXP is necessary to get to your next level.

Ability Points (AP)- These are used for leveling up materia currently equipped
on your character's weapon and armor. Each materia has its own amount of AP
needed to get to the next level. AP usually comes in much smaller amounts than
EXP, so leveling up materia can be quite long for the bored gamer.

Gil- Money. It's as simple as that. The more you have, the more you can buy!

Building up Limits- When you first get a character, he only starts out with one
Limit. This is known as his 1-1 Limit. To get more limits after this, two
things can be done.

1. Use that 1-1 Limit so many times in battle to unlock a 1-2 limit.
2. Kill enough enemies to unlock a 2-1 Limit.

Once you get a 2-1 limit, you can switch to that Break Level by going to
'Limit' in the menu screen. Then, go to [Set Break Level] and go to your 2-1
Limit Break. After that, you can either work on using that one so many times to
unlock a 2-2 break, or you can kill more enemies to get a 3-1 break.

Note: You CANNOT obtain a level 4 Limit Break through these methods. You need
special items to do so. This is not the FAQ that explains this, so I can't help
you there bud.




===============================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

===============================================================================


NOTE: To get to certain sections fast and easily, press Ctrl + F on your
keyboard, and type in the head number of the section. For example, if you want
to go to an area that says '7A-C. Midgar Area', just press Ctrl + F and type
7A, 7B, or 7C to get to specific areas.



I.  RANDOM ENCOUNTER AREA OVERVIEW (1-50)


   1A-B. Sector 1 Reactor
   2A-D. Train Graveyard to 4th Street Plate Int.
   3A-C. Sector 5 Reactor
   4A-C. Sector 5 and 6 Areas
   5A-D. Sewers to Plate Support

   6A-I.  Shinra HQ
   7A-C.  Midgar Area
   8A-D.  Grasslands Area
   9A-C.  Mythril Mines
   10A-F. Junon Area and Cargo Ship

   11A-C. Corel Area
   12A-F. Mt. Corel
   13A-C. Gold Saucer Area
   14A-D. Corel Prison
   15A-B. Gold Saucer Area Desert and Junon Alarm Area

   16A-C. Gongaga Area
   17A-C. Gongaga
   18A-D. Cosmo Area
   19A-C. Cave of the Gi
   20A-B. Nibel Area

   21A-D. Shinra Mansion
   22A-D. Mt. Nibel
   23A-E. Rocket Launch Pad Area
   24A-D. Wutai Area
   25A-F. Da-Chao Mountains

   26A-B. Icicle Area (Grasses and Beaches)
   27A-C. Mideel Area (Grasses, Beaches, and Dirt)
   28A-D. Woodlands Area
   29A-B. Temple of the Ancients
   30A-D. Corral Valley and Forgotten City

   31A-B. Icicle Area (Snow and Chocobo Tracks)
   32A-E. Great Glacier
   33A-C. Gaea's Cliff
   34A-C. Crater and Whirlwind Maze
   35A-C. Return to Junon

   36A-B. Goblin Island
   37A-B. Cactus Island
   38A-B. Mideel Area (Forests and Chocobo Tracks)
   39A.   Corel Area Desert
   40A-B. Ancient Forest

   41A.   Round Island
   42A-E. Underwater Reactor
   43A-C. Gelnika
   44A-C. Sector 8 Underground
   45A-B. Winding Tunnel Revisited and Shinra HQ, 63rd Floor

   46A-B. Sector 8 and Mako Cannon
   47A-E. Inside Northern Cave, Pre-Party Splitting Areas
   48A.   Inside Northern Cave, Left Path
   49A.   Inside Northern Cave, Right Path
   50A.   Northern Cave Swamps


II.  Obtaining Limit Breaks

III. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

IV.  Contact Info

V.   Credits and Special Thanks


Got it? Okay, let us begin...




===============================================================================

I. RANDOM ENCOUNTER AREA OVERVIEW

===============================================================================




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1A. IN THE BEGINNING...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Outside of Sector 1 Reactor

Training Rating: * C'mon, you just started. Don't hang around here, man!

Monsters in this Area

  Military Police (MP) EXP-16 AP-2 Gil-10
  Guard Hound          EXP-20 AP-2 Gil-12
  Mono Drive           EXP-18 AP-3 Gil-8

Monster Groups

  Guard Hound          EXP-20 AP-2 Gil-12
  MP + Guard Hound     EXP-36 AP-4 Gil-22
  2x MP                EXP-32 AP-4 Gil-20
  2x MP + Mono Drive   EXP-50 AP-7 Gil-28
  2x Mono Drive        EXP-36 AP-6 Gil-16

Encounter Rate: ** It's okay, I guess. Still, it's not worth running around
for.

Experience Range (hereafter referred to as EXP. Range): 20-50
AP Range: 2-7
Gil Range: 12-28

EXP Average: 35
AP Average: 5
Gil Average: 20

Battle Average:

From Level...to Level...

1-5:   6 (battles)
5-10:  50
10-15: 150
15-20: 300
20-25: 520
25-30: 760
30-35: 1110
35-40: 1550
40-45: 1870
45-50: 2340
50-55: 2860
55-60: 3440
60-65: 4320
65-70: 4810
70-75: 5560
75-80: 6350
80-85: 8360
85-90: 8330
90-95: 9310
95-99: 8200

On a side note, I know that Cloud doesn't start at Level 1, but my chart looks
more professional this way. So, don't e-mail me complaints about that.

Mastering Knights of the Round: 100,000 battles

I know you can't get the KotR Materia yet, but this is a semi-useful fact to
know. Why? It's the most expensive Materia to master, so if you can handle
100,000 fights here, then there's no Materia you can't be able to master!

Best Spot to Train: Fight right by the bridge that leads into the reactor, if
you insist to start leveling up now. For a visual confirmation, the bridge area
should be where Wedge is chilling.

Limit Building: Ummm...don't bother wasting your time with this here. Well, if
you're desperate for a 1-2 Limit Break for Cloud, then explore around the area
until you fight those Mono Drives and wait for them to set you ablaze with Fire
for a while. Hey, Cloud can really take the heat, don't you think?




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1B. ENTERING THE LAIR OF THE GREEN JUICE (Mako)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector 1 Reactor (Interior)

Training Rating: *** This isn't a bad place to start, considering your levels
are low.

Monsters in this Area

  First Ray       EXP-12 AP-1 Gil-5
  Grunt           EXP-22 AP-2 Gil-15
  Mono Drive      EXP-18 AP-3 Gil-8
  Sweeper         EXP-27 AP-3 Gil-30

Monster Groups

  2x First Ray                EXP-24  AP-2  Gil-10
  2x First Ray + 2x Grunt     EXP-68  AP-6  Gil-40
  3x Grunt                    EXP-66  AP-6  Gil-45
  Sweeper + 2x Grunt          EXP-71  AP-7  Gil-60
  2x Grunt + 3x Mono Drive    EXP-98  AP-13 Gil-54
  2x Mono Drive + 2x Grunt    EXP-80  AP-10 Gil-46
  2x Grunt                    EXP-44  AP-4  Gil-30
  2x Mono Drive + First Ray   EXP-48  AP-7  Gil-21
  3x First Ray                EXP-36  AP-3  Gil-15
  2x First Ray + Grunt        EXP-48  AP-4  Gil-25
  2x Grunt + Mono Drive       EXP-62  AP-7  Gil-38
  Sweeper                     EXP-27  AP-3  Gil-30

Monster Info- Sweepers have high HP, so you may just want to strike them down
with a single Bolt spell. They are weak against Lightning.

Encounter Rate: ** This is the average rating, so this is a good thing.

EXP Range: 24-98
AP Range: 2-13
Gil Range: 10-60

EXP Average: 56
AP Average: 6
Gil Average: 35

Battle Average:

1-5:   4
5-10:  30
10-15: 90
15-20: 180
20-25: 330
25-30: 480
30-35: 690
35-40: 910
40-45: 1170
45-50: 1460
50-55: 1790
55-60: 2150
60-65: 2700
65-70: 3010
70-75: 3470
75-80: 3970
80-85: 5220
85-90: 5210
90-95: 5820
95-99: 5120

Mastering Knights of the Round: 83,330 battles

Best Spot to Train- This would have to be where Jessie hangs around after she
goes down a ladder for the first time. In this area where the reactor smoke
blows strong, you'll get 62-98 EXP per fight, 6-13 AP, and 38-54 gil a pop. The
monsters here are pathetically easy, too. There's no need to worry about those
high-health sweepers, so just keep hacking away at the Grunts and Mono-Drives
with pride. Once you feel like you've had your fill, just proceed with the
story and get out of that Reactor.

Limit Break Building:

Level X-2 Limit Building- Try to find a Sweeper with 2 Grunts protecting him,
and then let them beat you up until your gauge fills. Take out the Grunts with
your limits first, then finish the Sweeper off when you get your limit bar
filled again.

Alternatively, when you fight the Guard Scorpion, start attacking him while his
tail is up. His counterattack should do 70-80 points of damage to Barret and
Cloud, and this does wonders for filling up that bar. If you feel like saving
your Potions, don't bother doing this at all. I usually give the Scorpion some
Potions so I can attack him with limits some more...heheh.

Level X-1 Building:

Kill enemies in the area where Jessie hangs around. Enough said. You'll get
anywhere from 3-5 enemies per battle.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2A. GUARD HOUNDS AND MONO-DRIVES AND SWEEPERS, OH MY!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Train Graveyard (after you get off the train, take a hard right)

Training Rating: * It's just horrible compared to that 'Best Spot' in the
Sector 1 Reactor.

Monsters in this Area

  Guard Hound       EXP-20 AP-2 Gil-12
  Sweeper           EXP-27 AP-3 Gil-30
  Mono Drive        EXP-18 AP-3 Gil-8

Monster Groups

  2x Guard Hound    EXP-40 AP-4 Gil-24
  3x Mono Drive     EXP-54 AP-9 Gil-24
  Sweeper           EXP-27 AP-3 Gil-30

Monster Info- The Sweeper is back, so if you can't kill it in one hit, use
Bolt. Cloud's MP will be refilled before the next mission anyway (unless you go
here just before a certain train leaves).

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 27-54
AP Range: 3-9
Gil Range: 24-30

EXP Average: 40
AP Average: 5
Gil Average: 26

Battle Average:

1-5:   5
5-10:  40
10-15: 130
15-20: 260
20-25: 460
25-30: 670
30-35: 970
35-40: 1270
40-45: 1630
45-50: 2050
50-55: 2500
55-60: 3010
60-65: 3780
65-70: 4210
70-75: 4860
75-80: 5560
80-85: 7310
85-90: 7290
90-95: 8150
95-99: 7170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 100,000 battles

Limit Building:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Just let the Sweeper assault you, or let the 3x Mono
Drive Posse burn you up. Either way, it's not that great of an opportunity.
Still, I did it, because you get fully healed the morning you get on the train.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2B. THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: THE WINDTUNNEL

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Winding Tunnel

Training Rating: *** The 'Best Spot' is pretty good.

Monsters in this Area

  Special Combatant    EXP-28 AP-3 Gil-40
  Rocket Launcher      EXP-13 AP-3 Gil-7
  Grashstrike          EXP-20 AP-2 Gil-20 (Oh noes! The Silk Attack!)  >_>

Monster Groups

  4x Rocket Launcher   EXP-52 AP-12 Gil-28
  4x Grashstrike       EXP-80 AP-8  Gil-80
  3x Grashstrike       EXP-60 AP-6  Gil-60
  3x Special Combatant EXP-84 AP-9  Gil-120

Monster Info- Special Combatants are ONLY found in the 'Best Spot'.

Encounter Rate: * It takes a while to find monsters in this tunnel. But then,
the tunnel is really long if you got locked in the first boxcar.

EXP Range: 52-84
AP Range: 6-12
Gil Range: 28-120

EXP Average: 69
AP Average: 9
Gil Average: 72

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  25
10-15: 80
15-20: 150
20-25: 260
25-30: 390
30-35: 560
35-40: 740
40-45: 950
45-50: 1190
50-55: 1450
55-60: 1740
60-65: 2190
65-70: 2440
70-75: 2820
75-80: 3220
80-85: 4240
85-90: 4220
90-95: 4720
95-99: 4160

Mastering Knights of the Round: 555,560 battles

Best Spot for Training- This is the best place for a while, in my opinion.
Okay, when you reach the tunnel, go DOWN as far as you can go, and then you'll
end up fighting some Shinra soldiers (who turn into 3 Special Combatants for no
apparent reason...). These Combatants give you 84 EXP, 9 AP, and 120 Gil every
fight! You can keep choosing to fight them until you fall asleep in your gaming
chair. Sure, it isn't THAT much EXP a fight, but since you can quickly choose
to fight them over and over, the 'encounter rate' is basically ***. If you plan
to fight them for a long time, make sure you have plenty of Potions for
preparation. You can win quite a few Antidotes and Grenades while fighting
them, too.

Limit Break Building:

Level X-2 Training- This isn't the greatest area to do this, but you can let
Rocket Launchers unload their salvo. Each rocket does roughly 40 damage, and
they come in groups of four at times. Whenever I play, they target Tifa more
than half of the time. So, I usually try to get Tifa to use a few Beat Rushes
here.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2C. GOING BEYOND THE VENT THAT GIVES BARRET "THE CHILLS"

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Lower Sector 4 Plate and the like

Preparation- If you don't mind blowing a little MP, make sure one of your
characters has a 'Bolt' spell equipped on him.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in Area

  Rocket Launcher    EXP-13 AP-3 Gil-7
  Blugu              EXP-18 AP-2 Gil-35 (I love that name!)

Monster Groups

  3x Rocket Launcher             EXP-39 AP-9  Gil-21
  2x Blugu + Rocket Launcher     EXP-49 AP-7  Gil-77
  2x Rocket Launcher + 2x Blugu  EXP-62 AP-10 Gil-84

Monster Info: Blugus have over 100 HP and a solid defense, so use Bolt to
eliminate it immediately. It is weak against Lightning.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 39-62
AP Range: 7-10 (nice)
Gil Range: 21-84

EXP Average: 50
AP Average: 9
Gil Average: 61

Battle Average:

1-5:   4
5-10:  35
10-15: 110
15-20: 210
20-25: 360
25-30: 530
30-35: 780
35-40: 1010
40-45: 1310
45-50: 1640
50-55: 2000
55-60: 2410
60-65: 3030
65-70: 3370
70-75: 3890
75-80: 4450
80-85: 5850
85-90: 5830
90-95: 6520
95-99: 5740

Mastering Knights of the Round: 55,560 battles

Limit Building:

Level X-2 Training- Uh...just let the Rocket Launchers blast you a few times
again. Be a sport. Become a human test-site.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2D. MIRACLE ON 4th STREET

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- 4th Street Plate Int. (the tunnel area where Jessie hangs around)

Training Rating: *** This spot is quite good actually. No EXP below 60, which
is always nice.  ^_^

Monsters in this Area

  Chuse Tank    EXP-23 AP-2 Gil-30
  Grashstrike   EXP-20 AP-2 Gil-20

Monster Groups

  3x Chuse Tank                   EXP-69  AP-6  Gil-90
  2x Chuse Tank + 2x Grashstrike  EXP-86  AP-8  Gil-100
  3x Chuse Tank + 2x Grashstrike  EXP-109 AP-10 Gil-130
  4x Grashstrike                  EXP-80  AP-8  Gil-80

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 69-109
AP Range: 6-10
Gil Range: 80-130

EXP Average: 86
AP Average: 8
Gil Average: 100

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  20
10-15: 60
15-20: 120
20-25: 210
25-30: 310
30-35: 450
35-40: 590
40-45: 760
45-50: 950
50-55: 1160
55-60: 1400
60-65: 1760
65-70: 1960
70-75: 2260
75-80: 2590
80-85: 3400
85-90: 3390
90-95: 3790
95-99: 3340

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2- The Chuse Tank's Rolling Claw attack does 35-40 damage, which is
quite good for limits.

Level X-1- You are guaranteed anywhere from 3-5 enemies per battle, so use this
knowledge to your advantage. Slay those minions.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3A. THE HEART OF REACTOR NO.5

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector Five Reactor (Center Area)

Note: This area has been split up into 3 Parts. The Upper Area (anywhere above
the elevator), the Center Area (the screen where you enter the reactor, and the
smoky area one screen below this one), and the Lower Area (the screen that has
the Save Point on the bottom floor).

Training Rating: *** You can win a nice amount of Gil, but the AP value is
pretty low.

Monsters in this Area

ProtoMachineGun   EXP-16 AP-2 Gil-15
Smogger           EXP-32 AP-3 Gil-60
Special Combatant EXP-28 AP-3 Gil-40

Monster Groups

4x Special Combatant           EXP-112 AP-12 Gil-160
2x Smogger + Special Combatant EXP-92  AP-9  Gil-160
2x Smogger + ProtoMachineGun   EXP-80  AP-8  Gil-135
2x Smogger                     EXP-64  AP-6  Gil-120

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 64-112
AP Range: 6-12
Gil Range: 120-160

EXP Average: 87
AP Average: 9
Gil Average: 144

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  20
10-15: 60
15-20: 120
20-25: 210
25-30: 310
30-35: 450
35-40: 580
40-45: 750
45-50: 940
50-55: 1150
55-60: 1380
60-65: 1740
65-70: 1940
70-75: 2240
75-80: 2560
80-85: 3360
85-90: 3350
90-95: 3750
95-99: 3300

Mastering Knights of the Round: 55,560 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3B. INTO THE DEPTHS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Bottom Floor of the Sector 5 Reactor

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

ProtoMachineGun  EXP-16 AP-2 Gil-15
Smogger          EXP-32 AP-3 Gil-60
Blood Taste      EXP-24 AP-2 Gil-32

Monster Groups

2x Smogger + Blood Taste  EXP-88  AP-8  Gil-152
5x ProtoMachineGun        EXP-80  AP-10 Gil-75
2x Blood Taste + Smogger  EXP-80  AP-7  Gil-124

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 80-88
AP Range: 7-10
Gil Range: 75-152

EXP Average: 83
AP Average: 8
Gil Average: 117

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  21
10-15: 60
15-20: 120
20-25: 220
25-30: 320
30-35: 470
35-40: 610
40-45: 790
45-50: 990
50-55: 1210
55-60: 1450
60-65: 1820
65-70: 2030
70-75: 2340
75-80: 2680
80-85: 3520
85-90: 3510
90-95: 3930
95-99: 3460

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- You'll find 3-5 enemies in these parts. Not bad.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3C. ON TOP OF DEE WORLD

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Upper Sector 5 Reactor (after taking the elevator)

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Special Combatant  EXP-28 AP-3 Gil-40
ProtoMachineGun    EXP-16 AP-2 Gil-15
Blood Taste        EXP-24 AP-2 Gil-32

Monster Groups

2x Special Combatant + 2x Blood Taste     EXP-104 AP-10 Gil-144
4x Blood Taste                            EXP-96  AP-8  Gil-128
2x Special Combatant + 2x ProtoMachineGun EXP-88  AP-10 Gil-110
3x Special Combatant                      EXP-84  AP-9  Gil-120
2x Special Combatant + ProtoMachineGun    EXP-72  AP-8  Gil-95
3x Blood Taste                            EXP-72  AP-6  Gil-96
3x ProtoMachineGun                        EXP-48  AP-6  Gil-45

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 48-104
AP Range: 6-10
Gil Range: 45-144

EXP Average: 81
AP Average: 8
Gil Average: 105

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  20
10-15: 70
15-20: 130
20-25: 230
25-30: 330
30-35: 480
35-40: 630
40-45: 810
45-50: 1010
50-55: 1240
55-60: 1490
60-65: 1870
65-70: 2080
70-75: 2400
75-80: 2750
80-85: 3610
85-90: 3600
90-95: 4020
95-99: 3540

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- When you fight the Boss known as Air Buster, just stand
around and watch him use Big Bomber on your party. This should fill your gauge
pretty fast. Once your Limit is ready to be unleashed, try to hit him while
he's facing you (If you hit him from behind, it will do more than 2x the normal
damage). Cure Air Buster if necessary, and I suggest that you kill him after he
runs out of Big Bomber ammo.

Level X-1 Opportunity- There are 3-5 enemies here. Kill, kill, KILL!!!




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4A. CLOUD SURE DIDN'T COME HERE FOR RELIGION...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside of Church (Sector 5)

Preparation: If Aeris' physical attacks don't do an average of 40 damage, then
be sure to equip her with an attack spell (preferably Ice).

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Hedgehog Pie  HP-40 EXP-20 AP-3 Gil-25

Monster Groups

3x Hedgehog Pie      EXP-60 AP-9 Gil-75
2x Hedgehog Pie      EXP-40 AP-6 Gil-50

Monster Info- Hedgehog Pies are weak against Ice, although even Bolt can kill
them in one hit.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 40-60
AP Range: 6-9
Gil Range: 50-75

EXP Average: 50
AP Average: 8
Gil Average: 63

Battle Average:

1-5:   4
5-10:  35
10-15: 110
15-20: 210
20-25: 360
25-30: 530
30-35: 780
35-40: 1010
40-45: 1310
45-50: 1640
50-55: 2000
55-60: 2410
60-65: 3030
65-70: 3370
70-75: 3890
75-80: 4450
80-85: 5850
85-90: 5830
90-95: 6600
95-99: 5740

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4B. VICE CITY!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector 5 Slums

Preparation- If your attacks don't do 68+ damage yet, then have spells ready to
quickly kill off the thief-type monster here.

Training Rating: * It's pathetic, plus Vices steal. >_<

Monsters in this Area

Whole Eater  HP-72 EXP-24 AP-2 Gil-70
Vice         HP-68 EXP-24 AP-3 Gil-80
Hedgehog Pie HP-40 EXP-20 AP-3 Gil-25

Monster Groups

2x Hedgehog Pie + Whole Eater  EXP-64 AP-8 Gil-120
2x Vice                        EXP-48 AP-6 Gil-160
2x Whole Eater                 EXP-48 AP-4 Gil-140

Monster Info- Vices can steal Items from you, then escape from battle on their
next turn. Kill them off fast. They do carry a unique Item to steal once you
obtain a 'Steal' Materia...a Speed Drink (casts Haste on one ally).

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 48-64
AP Range: 4-8
Gil Range: 120-160

EXP Average: 53
AP Average: 6
Gil Average: 140

Battle Average:

1-5:   4
5-10:  33
10-15: 100
15-20: 190
20-25: 340
25-30: 500
30-35: 730
35-40: 960
40-45: 1230
45-50: 1540
50-55: 1890
55-60: 2270
60-65: 2850
65-70: 3180
70-75: 3670
75-80: 4200
80-85: 5520
85-90: 5500
90-95: 6150
95-99: 5410

Mastering Knights of the Round: 83,330 battles

Best Spot to Train- Run around near the area with the Save Point. The Encounter
Rate tends to be slightly better than the other screen with these monsters.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4C. SECTOR 666, MWAHUAHUAHAH...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector 6

Preparation- Hell House attacks can be deadly if you're not paying attention to
your HP. Have Attack and Curing spells equipped to combat this Real Estate
monstrosity.

Training Rating: ** The EXP may be mediocre, but the Gil is great. Also, this
is a good spot to begin some hardy Limit Building.

Monsters in this Area

Hell House  HP-450 EXP-44 AP-6 Gil-200
Whole Eater HP-72  EXP-24 AP-2 Gil-70

Monster Groups

4x Whole Eater     EXP-96 AP-8 Gil-280
3x Whole Eater     EXP-72 AP-6 Gil-210
Hell House         EXP-44 AP-6 Gil-200

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 44-96
AP Range: 6-8
Gil Range: 200-280

EXP Average: 71
AP Average: 7
Gil Average: 230

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  25
10-15: 75
15-20: 150
20-25: 260
25-30: 380
30-35: 550
35-40: 710
40-45: 920
45-50: 1150
50-55: 1410
55-60: 1690
60-65: 2130
65-70: 2370
70-75: 2740
75-80: 3130
80-85: 4120
85-90: 4110
90-95: 4590
95-99: 4040

Mastering Knights of the Round: 71,430 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Find a Hell House. Attack him until he transforms after
performing a Suicide Drop. Now, just let him attack you. His attacks do a
relatively high amount of damage, filling up that bar at a good pace. Once I
was able to steal Speed Drinks, I gave the Hell House one to speed up the
process.

Anything Else- Once you get to Wall Market, I recommend you buy some Hypers
from the Pharmacy if you plan on building Limits anytime soon. The Fury status
speeds up the bar-filling cycle, but the affected character's physical attack
accuracy noticeably drops.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5A. HOME OF THE TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector 6 Sewers

Training Rating: ** Meh, save your MP for the Train Graveyard.

Monsters in this area

Sahagin  EXP-30 AP-3 Gil-89
Ceasar   EXP-23 AP-2 Gil-55

Monster Groups

3x Sahagin           EXP-90 AP-9 Gil-267
2x Sahagin + Ceasar  EXP-83 AP-8 Gil-233
3x Ceasar            EXP-69 AP-6 Gil-165
2x Sahagin           EXP-60 AP-6 Gil-178

Monster Info- You can steal Hypers from Sahagins, but it takes a while to snag
one. If time is money to you, then don't bother.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 60-90
AP Range: 6-9
Gil Range: 165-267

EXP Average: 76
AP Average: 7
Gil Average: 211

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  25
10-15: 70
15-20: 140
20-25: 240
25-30: 350
30-35: 510
35-40: 670
40-45: 860
45-50: 1080
50-55: 1320
55-60: 1580
60-65: 1990
65-70: 2220
70-75: 2560
75-80: 2930
80-85: 3850
85-90: 3840
90-95: 4290
95-99: 3770

Mastering Knights of the Round: 71,430 battles

Limit Building:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Be a pal and let Aps attack you until he starts giving
you the Sadness status. Sadness reduces damage done to you, but your Limit
gauge fills slower.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5B. EVER WONDERED WHERE THOMAS THE TANK ENGINE ENDED UP?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Lower Train Graveyard

Preparation: Have a Cure-All combination on one of your characters. This spell
can actually kill Ghosts here. Equip Steal for some Ether-grabbing.

Training Rating: *** This place has good AP, and you can steal many an Ether.
They sell for 750 Gil each.

Monsters in this Area

Ghost    EXP-30 AP-3 Gil-22
Deenglow EXP-35 AP-4 Gil-70
Cripshay EXP-26 AP-3 Gil-53

Monster Groups

2x Ghost + Deenglow    EXP-95 AP-10 Gil-114
2x Cripshay + Deenglow EXP-87 AP-10 Gil-176
2x Deenglow            EXP-70 AP-8  Gil-140
3x Ghost               EXP-90 AP-9  Gil-66

Monster Info- Steal Ethers from Deenglows. They're rather easy to pickpocket.
When Ghosts are attacked, they disappear for a short time. During that time,
you cannot touch them. Since they are Undead, Cure spells will damage them.
Normally, a Cure-All will wipe them out entirely. Ghosts also carry Ghost
Hands, which drain minimal MP from an opponent. Steal those if you want.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 70-95
AP Range: 8-10
Gil Range: 114-176

EXP Average: 86
AP Average: 9
Gil Average: 124

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  20
10-15: 60
15-20: 120
20-25: 210
25-30: 310
30-35: 450
35-40: 590
40-45: 760
45-50: 950
50-55: 1160
55-60: 1400
60-65: 1760
65-70: 1960
70-75: 2260
75-80: 2590
80-85: 3400
85-90: 3390
90-95: 3790
95-99: 3340

Mastering Knights of the Round: 55,560 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Sometimes Ghosts use the Drain spell. The damage is
pretty good, but the attack isn't all that common. This area really isn't that
great for Limits.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5C. THE TRAINS! THEY DO NOTHING!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Upper Train Graveyard

Preparation- Once again, have Cure-All ready for some Ghost-busting. Equip
Steal, too.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Eligor       EXP-36 AP-4 Gil-120
Deenglow     EXP-35 AP-4 Gil-70
Ghost        EXP-30 AP-3 Gil-22

Monster Groups

3x Deenglow         EXP-105 AP-12 Gil-210
2x Ghost + Deenglow EXP-95  AP-10 Gil-114
3x Ghost            EXP-90  AP-9  Gil-66
2x Deenglow         EXP-70  AP-8  Gil-140
Eligor              EXP-36  AP-4  Gil-120

Monster Info- Eligors carry Striking Staves, which is an excellent new weapon
for Aeris. Deenglows have Ether, and Ghosts have Ghost Hands. You can kill
Ghosts immediately with Cure-All.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 36-105
AP Range: 4-12
Gil Range: 66-210

EXP Average: 79
AP Average: 9
Gil Average: 130

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  22
10-15: 70
15-20: 130
20-25: 230
25-30: 340
30-35: 490
35-40: 640
40-45: 830
45-50: 1040
50-55: 1270
55-60: 1520
60-65: 1910
65-70: 2130
70-75: 2460
75-80: 2820
80-85: 3700
85-90: 3690
90-95: 4130
95-99: 3630

Mastering Knights of the Round: 55,560 battles

Limit Building:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Eligor can deal a medium amount of damage to the party.
This place still isn't all that great. Don't do this here.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5D. THE ATTACK OF THE FLYING HELICOPTER-MEN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector 7 Plate Support

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Aero Combatant     EXP-40 AP-4 Gil-110

Monster Groups

3x Aero Combatant  EXP-120 AP-12 Gil-330
2x Aero Combatant  EXP-80  AP-8  Gil-220
Aero Combatant     EXP-40  AP-4  Gil-110

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 40-120
AP Range: 4-12
Gil Range: 110-330

EXP Average: 80
AP Average: 8
Gil Average: 220

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  22
10-15: 70
15-20: 130
20-25: 230
25-30: 330
30-35: 490
35-40: 630
40-45: 820
45-50: 1020
50-55: 1250
55-60: 1500
60-65: 1890
65-70: 2110
70-75: 2430
75-80: 2780
80-85: 3660
85-90: 3640
90-95: 4070
95-99: 3590

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles

Best Spot to Train: The best place to go would be on the very top of the plate
support. The extra running room should bump up the Encounter Rate a notch.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- What can I say? Let Reno beat the crap out of you. Just
don't let him Pyramid your whole party, or it's Game Over.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6A. THIS PLACE HAS SOME SERIOUS SECURITY ISSUES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ (Both the area just outside the building and the First Floor
Lobby.)

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Grenade Combatant  HP-130 EXP-42 AP-4 Gil-72

Monster Groups

3x Grenade Combatant  EXP-126 AP-12 Gil-216
2x Grenade Combatant  EXP-84  AP-8  Gil-144

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 84-126
AP Range: 8-12
Gil Range: 144-216

EXP Average: 105
AP Average: 10
Gil Average: 180

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  16
10-15: 50
15-20: 100
20-25: 170
25-30: 250
30-35: 370
35-40: 480
40-45: 620
45-50: 780
50-55: 950
55-60: 1150
60-65: 1440
65-70: 1600
70-75: 1850
75-80: 2120
80-85: 2790
85-90: 2780
90-95: 3100
95-99: 2730

Mastering Knights of the Round: 50,000 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6B. MIGHTY GRUNT HAS ENTERED THE FRAY

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ (Second and Third Floor Lobbies)

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Grenade Combatant  HP-130 EXP-42 AP-4 Gil-72
Mighty Grunt       HP-230 EXP-50 AP-5 Gil-98 (Level 12)

Monster Groups

3x Grenade Combatant       EXP-126 AP-12 Gil-216
2x Grenade Combatant       EXP-84  AP-8  Gil-144
Mighty Grunt               EXP-50  AP-5  Gil-98

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 50-126
AP Range: 5-12
Gil Range: 98-216

EXP Average: 87
AP Average: 8
Gil Average: 153

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  20
10-15: 60
15-20: 120
20-25: 210
25-30: 310
30-35: 450
35-40: 580
40-45: 750
45-50: 940
50-55: 1150
55-60: 1380
60-65: 1740
65-70: 1940
70-75: 2240
75-80: 2560
80-85: 3360
85-90: 3350
90-95: 3750
95-99: 3300

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6C. GOING UP?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 59th Floor

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Mighty Grunt  HP-230 EXP-50 AP-5 Gil-98 (Level 12)

Monster Groups

3x Mighty Grunt  EXP-150 AP-15 Gil-294
2x Mighty Grunt  EXP-100 AP-10 Gil-196
Mighty Grunt     EXP-50  AP-5  Gil-98

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 50-150
AP Range: 5-15
Gil Range: 98-294

EXP Average: 100
AP Average: 10
Gil Average: 196

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  17
10-15: 50
15-20: 100
20-25: 180
25-30: 270
30-35: 390
35-40: 510
40-45: 650
45-50: 820
50-55: 1000
55-60: 1200
60-65: 1510
65-70: 1680
70-75: 1940
75-80: 2220
80-85: 2920
85-90: 2910
90-95: 3260
95-99: 2870

Mastering Knights of the Round: 50,000 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- There are no random encounters on the 60th floor, but you
can still choose to fight up to 4 battles in which you are surrounded by two
Mighty Grunts (Instead of sneaking past the four security guards, make yourself
visible to them). Most of the time, at least one of their shots will do double
the damage. Since you are surrounded, if an enemy physically attacks you while
you're facing your back at him, the attack will do twice as much damage. Your
gauge will fill up faster in these four fights.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6D. RECEIVED KEY ITEM "MIDGAR PARTS"!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 65th Floor

Preparation- Have Bolt equipped on a character. If you acquired the 'Elemental'
Materia from Mayor Domino, then equip Lightning-Elemental in your Weapon. This
will make your physical attacks do Lightning damage. On the contrary, if you
put Lightning-Elemental in your Armor, all Lightning damage done to that
character will be reduced by a certain amount (At 1 star, Elemental halves
elemental damage. At 2 stars, Elemental negates elemental damage. At 3 stars,
Elemental absorbs elemental damage).

Training Rating: ** The one nice thing about this area is that you can get weed
for free in the comfort of your own home (Loco Weed will be dropped by enemies
a lot).

Monsters in this Area

Hammer Blaster  HP-210 EXP-43 AP-5 Gil-80 (Level 12)
Sword Dance     HP-160 EXP-39 AP-6 Gil-90

Monster Groups

3x Sword Dance    EXP-117 AP-18 Gil-270
2x Hammer Blaster EXP-86  AP-10 Gil-160
2x Sword Dance    EXP-78  AP-12 Gil-180
Hammer Blaster    EXP-43  AP-5  Gil-80
Sword Dance       EXP-39  AP-6  Gil-90

Monster Info- Sword Dances can Fury you with one of their attacks. Hammer
Blasters are weak against Lightning, so zap them before they try to Confuse
you.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 39-117
AP Range: 5-18
Gil Range: 80-270

EXP Average: 73
AP Average: 10
Gil Average: 156

Battle Average:

 1-5:  3
5-10:  24
10-15: 70
15-20: 140
20-25: 250
25-30: 370
30-35: 530
35-40: 690
40-45: 900
45-50: 1120
50-55: 1370
55-60: 1650
60-65: 2070
65-70: 2310
70-75: 2660
75-80: 3050
80-85: 4010
85-90: 3990
90-95: 4460
95-99: 3930

Mastering Knights of the Round: 50,000 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6E. OH NO! IT'S SOLDIER!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 67th Floor

Preparation- Make sure you have Bolt and Fire equipped. Now, you have two
choices. If you want to be defensive, put either a Lightning-Elemental or an
Ice-Elemental in your armor. This will help protect you from the SOLDIER: 3rd
Class's Bolt2 and Ice2. If you want to be more offensive, then put either a
Lightning-Elemental or a Fire-Elemental in your Weapon.

Training Rating: ** If I were you, I'd just steal the Hardedge and some Carbon
Bangles. Then I'd proceed with the story.

Monsters in this Area

Moth Slasher   HP-260 MP-0  EXP-46 AP-5 Gil-75
Warning Board  HP-270 MP-0  EXP-38 AP-4 Gil-75 (Level 12)
SOLDIER: 3rd   HP-250 MP-40 EXP-54 AP-6 Gil-116

Laser Cannon   HP-155 MP-0  EXP-5  AP-0 Gil-0 (Level 8) [Special Monster]
Machine Gun    HP-155 MP-0  EXP-5  AP-0 Gil-0 (Level 8) [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

2x SOLDIER: 3rd  EXP-108 AP-12 Gil-232
2x Moth Slasher  EXP-92  AP-10 Gil-150
Moth Slasher     EXP-46  AP-5  Gil-75
Warning Board    EXP-38  AP-4  Gil-75

Monster Info: SOLDIER: 3rd Classes carry a Weapon for Cloud called the Hardedge.
It is powerful at this stage of the game, so be sure to steal at least one.
SOLDIERs are also weak against Fire (flammable uniforms, maybe?), so flare them
up a bit. Moth Slashers are weak against Lightning, and they carry Carbon
Bangles. This piece of armor will be useful for quite a while. Warning Boards
are Immune to Lightning.

Machine Guns and Laser Cannons can only be found on a Warning Board (wait a
little bit for them to appear). If you destroy them, you'll get an extra 5 EXP
at the end of the battle. They are weak against Lightning, too.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 38-108
AP Range: 4-12
Gil Range: 75-232

EXP Average: 71
AP Average: 8
Gil Average: 133

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  25
10-15: 75
15-20: 150
20-25: 260
25-30: 380
30-35: 550
35-40: 710
40-45: 920
45-50: 1150
50-55: 1410
55-60: 1690
60-65: 2130
65-70: 2370
70-75: 2740
75-80: 3130
80-85: 4120
85-90: 4110
90-95: 4590
95-99: 4040

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- When fighting HO512, you can keep killing his opts until
you feel you should stop. I think that the kills rack up, but I'm not 100% sure
of that.

Level X-2 Opportunity- The third-class SOLDIERs can tear you up with Flying
Sickle, Bolt2, and Ice2. Let them blow all their MP on you, then you can blow
all your Limit Breaks on them. Heheheh.

When fighting the Boss Sample:HO512, let his little opt thingies use their
spells on you. That can fill up the gauge as well.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6F. SAVE THE ENDANGERED SPECIES!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 68th Floor

Preparation- Make sure you have Bolt and Fire equipped. Now, you have two
choices. If you want to be defensive, put either a Lightning-Elemental or an
Ice-Elemental in your armor. This will help protect you from the SOLDIER: 3rd
Class's Bolt2 and Ice2. If you want to be more offensive, then put either a
Lightning-Elemental or a Fire-Elemental in your Weapon.

Training Rating: **** Excellent in all aspects.

Monsters in this Area

Moth Slasher   HP-260 MP-0  EXP-46 AP-5 Gil-75
Warning Board  HP-270 MP-0  EXP-38 AP-4 Gil-75 (Level 12)
SOLDIER: 3rd   HP-250 MP-40 EXP-54 AP-6 Gil-116

Laser Cannon   HP-155 MP-0  EXP-5  AP-0 Gil-0 (Level 8) [Special Monster]
Machine Gun    HP-155 MP-0  EXP-5  AP-0 Gil-0 (Level 8) [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

3x SOLDIER: 3rd                EXP-162 AP-18 Gil-348
2x SOLDIER: 3rd + Moth Slasher EXP-154 AP-17 Gil-307
3x Moth Slasher                EXP-138 AP-15 Gil-225
2x SOLDIER: 3rd                EXP-108 AP-12 Gil-232
2x Warning Board               EXP-76  AP-8  Gil-150

Monster Info- SOLDIER: 3rd Classes carry a Weapon for Cloud called the Hardedge.
It is powerful at this stage of the game, so be sure to steal at least one.
SOLDIERs are also weak against Fire (flammable uniforms, maybe?), so flare them
up a bit. Moth Slashers are weak against Lightning, and they carry Carbon
Bangles. This piece of armor will be useful for quite a while. Warning Boards
are Immune to Lightning. Machine Guns and Laser Cannons can only be found on a
Warning Board (wait a little bit for them to appear). If you destroy them,
you'll get an extra 5 EXP at the end of the battle. They are weak against
Lightning, too.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 76-162
AP Range: 8-18
Gil Range: 150-348

EXP Average: 128
AP Average: 14
Gil Average: 252

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  14
10-15: 40
15-20: 80
20-25: 140
25-30: 210
30-35: 300
35-40: 400
40-45: 510
45-50: 640
50-55: 780
55-60: 940
60-65: 1180
65-70: 1320
70-75: 1520
75-80: 1740
80-85: 2280
85-90: 2280
90-95: 2550
95-99: 2240

Mastering Knights of the Round: 35,710 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Have SOLDIER: 3rd Classes use up all of their MP on you,
then kill them off. While you're doing this, try stealing more Hardedges. They
are a good Throwing weapon, and you can sell the excess stock.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6G. THE BLOOD-PAVED PATH OF GROSS-NESS (PART I)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 67th Floor (These battles are now in place of the earlier ones
on the 67th floor. These battles start after you 'break' out of jail.)

Preparation: Have a Star Pendant equipped on one of your characters to protect
you from the Brain Pod's poisoning capabilities. Also, have the Cure-All combo
ready, because Brain Pods take damage from Cure. If you want, you can have
Poison-Elemental in your Armor. It halves the poison damage you receive.

Training Rating: *** This spot may have slightly better AP than the previous
zone, but it is slightly worse overall.

Monsters in this Area

Vargid Police  HP-140 MP-28 EXP-44 AP-7 Gil-40
Brain Pod      HP-240 MP-46 EXP-52 AP-6 Gil-95

Monster Groups

3x Vargid Police             EXP-132 AP-21 Gil-120
2x Brain Pod                 EXP-104 AP-12 Gil-190
Brain Pod                    EXP-52  AP-6  Gil-95
2x Vargid Police + Brain Pod EXP-140 AP-20 Gil-175

Monster Info- Vargid Police explode on their next turn if attacked, so use
spells to kill them if you're weak. Brain Pods are hurt by Cure, so start
healing them.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 52-140
AP Range: 6-21
Gil Range: 95-190

EXP Average: 107
AP Average: 15
Gil Average: 145

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  16
10-15: 50
15-20: 100
20-25: 170
25-30: 250
30-35: 360
35-40: 470
40-45: 610
45-50: 760
50-55: 940
55-60: 1120
60-65: 1410
65-70: 1570
70-75: 1820
75-80: 2080
80-85: 2730
85-90: 2720
90-95: 3050
95-99: 2680

Mastering Knights of the Round: 33,330 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Prepare to take the brunt of suicide bombers! Hit the
Vargid Police once, and wait for it to explode.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6H. THE BLOOD-PAVED PATH OF GROSS-NESS (PART II)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 68th Floor (Post-Jailbreak Incident)

Preparation- Wear a Star Pendant, have Cure-All equipped, and maybe throw in a
little Fire-Elemental in your Armor. Capice?

Training Rating: *** There is no place to rest, which means you only have a
limited amount of time to train.

Monsters in this Area

Vargid Police  HP-140 MP-28 EXP-44 AP-7 Gil-40
Brain Pod      HP-240 MP-46 EXP-52 AP-6 Gil-95
Zenene         HP-250 MP-93 EXP-58 AP-6 Gil-60

Monster Groups

2x Brain Pod + Zenene  EXP-162 AP-18 Gil-250
2x Zenene              EXP-116 AP-12 Gil-120
Zenene + Vargid Police EXP-102 AP-13 Gil-100

Monster Info- Both Zenene and Brain Pod can be damaged by Cure, so assist them
by casting it on them. Vargid Police explode on their next turn if attacked;
therefore, you should try to kill them in one hit. Zenene has a Fire attack
called Ghenghana, so Fire-Elemental in your armor can be a worthy investment.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 102-162
AP Range: 12-18
Gil Range: 100-250

EXP Average: 127
AP Average: 14
Gil Average: 157

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  14
10-15: 40
15-20: 80
20-25: 140
25-30: 210
30-35: 310
35-40: 400
40-45: 510
45-50: 640
50-55: 790
55-60: 950
60-65: 1190
65-70: 1330
70-75: 1530
75-80: 1750
80-85: 2300
85-90: 2300
90-95: 2570
95-99: 2260

Mastering Knights of the Round: 35,710 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Zenene's Ghenghana attack does roughly 100 damage to a
character. That's pretty high at this point. Take a few balls of fire in the
gut.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6I. THE BLOOD-PAVED PATH OF GROSS-NESS (PART III)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 69th Floor

Preparation- Wear a Star Pendant, have Cure-All ready, and have Fire-Elemental
in your armor. End of story.

Training Rating: ** Go to the 68th Floor if you want to level up.

Monsters in this Area

Vargid Police  HP-140 MP-28 EXP-44 AP-7 Gil-40
Brain Pod      HP-240 MP-46 EXP-52 AP-6 Gil-95
Zenene         HP-250 MP-93 EXP-58 AP-6 Gil-60

Monster Groups

2x Brain Pod + Zenene  EXP-162 AP-18 Gil-250
2x Zenene              EXP-116 AP-12 Gil-120
Vargid Police + Zenene EXP-102 AP-13 Gil-100
2x Vargid Police       EXP-88  AP-14 Gil-80
Zenene                 EXP-58  AP-6  Gil-60

Monster Info- Both Zenene and Brain Pod can be damaged by Cure, so assist them
by casting it on them. Vargid Police explode on their next turn if attacked;
therefore, you should try to kill them in one hit. Zenene has a Fire attack
called Ghenghana, so Fire-Elemental in your armor can be a worthy investment.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 58-162
AP Range: 6-18
Gil Range: 60-250

EXP Average: 105
AP Average: 13
Gil Average: 122

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  16
10-15: 50
15-20: 100
20-25: 170
25-30: 250
30-35: 370
35-40: 480
40-45: 620
45-50: 780
50-55: 950
55-60: 1150
60-65: 1440
65-70: 1600
70-75: 1850
75-80: 2120
80-85: 2790
85-90: 2780
90-95: 3100
95-99: 2730

Mastering Knights of the Round: 38,460 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Let Zenene Ghenghana you, let Rufus and Dark Nation
batter Cloud, let Hundred Gunner and Heli Gunner empty their clips on the gang,
and let Motor Ball turn the battlefield into an inferno.

YOU HAVE NOW EXITED MIDGAR. W00T W00T.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7A. THE GROUND IS ALWAYS DARKER BY MIDGAR

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Midgar Area, Dirt

Preparation- Have Steal equipped on one of your characters. You should have a
Fire-All combo, too. Putting Lightning/Fire-Elemental in your weapon is useful
as well.

Training Rating: ** You have a whole world ahead of you, literally. Don't be
attached to the polluted atmosphere of Midgar.

Monsters in this Area

Custom Sweeper  HP-300 MP-100 EXP-63 AP-7 Gil-120 [Matra Magic]
Devil Ride      HP-240 MP-0   EXP-60 AP-6 Gil-100
Kalm Fang       HP-160 MP-0   EXP-53 AP-5 Gil-92
Prowler         HP-150 MP-0   EXP-55 AP-5 Gil-160 (Level 12)

Monster Groups

2x Kalm Fang + Devil Ride     EXP-166 AP-16 Gil-284
2x Prowler + Kalm Fang        EXP-163 AP-15 Gil-412
2x Custom Sweeper             EXP-126 AP-14 Gil-240
2x Devil Ride                 EXP-120 AP-12 Gil-200
Devil Ride                    EXP-60  AP-6  Gil-100

Monster Info- Kalm Fangs carry Ether, and they are very sensitive to Fire.
Custom Sweepers use Matra Magic, which is an ability that can be copied onto
your Enemy Skill Materia. To get an Enemy Skill, the enemy must use the attack
on the character with the Enemy Skill Materia equipped. You must also WIN the
battle, or it won't be permanently learned. Custom Sweepers are easily short-
circuited by Lightning, and they carry a great weapon for Barret (the Atomic
Scissors). Prowlers are basically Vice-clones because they like to steal from
you. Kill them first, or you may lose a really good Item.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 60-166
AP Range: 6-16
Gil Range: 100-412

EXP Average: 127
AP Average: 13
Gil Average: 247

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  14
10-15: 40
15-20: 80
20-25: 140
25-30: 210
30-35: 310
35-40: 400
40-45: 510
45-50: 640
50-55: 790
55-60: 950
60-65: 1190
65-70: 1330
70-75: 1530
75-80: 1750
80-85: 2300
85-90: 2300
90-95: 2570
95-99: 2260

Mastering Knights of the Round: 38,460 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Custom Sweeper's Matra Magic does decent damage to
all party members, leading to the steady filling of all your characters'
gauges.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7B. THE GREEN-GREENS OF MIDGAR

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Midgar Area, Grasses

Preparation- If you need Ether, equip Steal. Have a Fire-All combo ready for
torching Kalm Fangs. Matra Magic does just as well when used on them, but Fire
costs less MP. Still, have Matra Magic equipped. Nasty Prowlers lurk about. Low
on MP? Use a Fire-Elemental Combo in your weapon.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Devil Ride  HP-240 EXP-60 AP-6 Gil-100
Kalm Fang   HP-160 EXP-53 AP-5 Gil-92
Prowler     HP-150 EXP-55 AP-5 Gil-160

Monster Groups

2x Prowler + Kalm Fang  EXP-163 AP-15 Gil-412
2x Kalm Fang + Prowler  EXP-161 AP-15 Gil-344
3x Kalm Fang            EXP-159 AP-15 Gil-276
2x Devil Ride           EXP-120 AP-12 Gil-200

Monster Info- Prowlers steal Items, so kill them first. Kalm Fangs carry Ether
and are weak against Fire.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 120-163
AP Range: 12-15
Gil Range: 200-412

EXP Average: 151
AP Average: 14
Gil Average: 308

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  10
10-15: 30
15-20: 70
20-25: 120
25-30: 180
30-35: 260
35-40: 340
40-45: 430
45-50: 540
50-55: 660
55-60: 800
60-65: 1000
65-70: 1120
70-75: 1290
75-80: 1470
80-85: 1940
85-90: 1930
90-95: 2160
95-99: 1900

Mastering Knights of the Round: 35,710 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7C. VOLLEYBALL, ANYONE?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Midgar Area, Beaches

Preparation: Have Fire-All/Fire-Elemental (Weapon) and Matra Magic equipped. If
you want more Ether, put Steal back on.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Kalm Fang  HP-160 EXP-53 AP-5 Gil-92
Prowler    HP-150 EXP-55 AP-5 Gil-160

Monster Groups

2x Prowler + Kalm Fang  EXP-163 AP-15 Gil-412
2x Kalm Fang + Prowler  EXP-161 AP-15 Gil-344
3x Kalm Fang            EXP-159 AP-15 Gil-276
2x Kalm Fang            EXP-106 AP-10 Gil-184

Monster Info- Prowlers steal Items, so kill them first. Kalm Fangs carry Ether,
and they are weak against Fire magic.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 106-161
AP Rang: 10-15
Gil Range: 184-412

EXP Average: 147
AP Average: 14
Gil Average: 304

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  12
10-15: 40
15-20: 70
20-25: 120
25-30: 180
30-35: 260
35-40: 350
40-45: 440
45-50: 560
50-55: 680
55-60: 820
60-65: 1030
65-70: 1150
70-75: 1320
75-80: 1510
80-85: 1990
85-90: 1980
90-95: 2220
95-99: 1950

Mastering Knights of the Round: 35,710 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8A. GRASSY GRASSLANDS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Grasslands Area, Grasses

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Mandragora  HP-120 MP-0  EXP-55 AP-6 Gil-135
Levrikon    HP-200 MP-0  EXP-65 AP-7 Gil-128
Elfadunk    HP-220 MP-34 EXP-64 AP-7 Gil-140
Mu          HP-210 MP-52 EXP-54 AP-6 Gil-130 (Level 12) [Lv.4 Suicide]

Monster Groups

2x Mandragora + Elfadunk + Levrikon  EXP-239 AP-26 Gil-538
4x Mandragora                        EXP-220 AP-25 Gil-540
3x Levrikon                          EXP-195 AP-21 Gil-384
2x Elfadunk + Levrikon               EXP-193 AP-21 Gil-408
2x Mu + Levrikon                     EXP-173 AP-19 Gil-388
2x Levrikon                          EXP-130 AP-14 Gil-256

Monster Info- Levrikons carry Ether, and their Flaming Peck can sometimes Fury
you. Elfadunks use Shower quite often, which Saddens one character. Mus use the
Enemy Skill Lv.4 Suicide, which can be useful depending on the situation.
Mandragoras are extremely resistant to magic, so stick with physical attacks on
them.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 130-239
AP Range: 14-26
Gil Range: 256-538

EXP Average: 192
AP Average: 21
Gil Average: 419

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  9
10-15: 30
15-20: 50
20-25: 90
25-30: 140
30-35: 200
35-40: 260
40-45: 340
45-50: 430
50-55: 520
55-60: 630
60-65: 790
65-70: 880
70-75: 1010
75-80: 1160
80-85: 1520
85-90: 1520
90-95: 1700
95-99: 1490

Mastering Knights of the Round: 23,810 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Mu's Sewer attack does around 150 damage. If your
character has a level with a multiple of 4, then Mu's Lv.4 Suicide will really
help bring that gauge up.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8B. ELFADUNK COAST

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Grasslands Area, Beaches

Preparation- If you don't like to have Sadness or Fury, then carry some
Tranquilizers and Hypers when leveling here.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Levrikon  HP-200 MP-0  EXP-65 AP-7 Gil-128
Elfadunk  HP-220 MP-34 EXP-64 AP-7 Gil-140

Monster Groups

2x Levrikon  EXP-130 AP-14 Gil-256
2x Elfadunk  EXP-128 AP-14 Gil-280
Levrikon     EXP-65  AP-7  Gil-128
Elfadunk     EXP-64  AP-7  Gil-140

Monster Info- Levrikons carry Ether and can Fury you sometimes. Elfadunks
Sadden you with their Showers.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 64-130
AP Range: 7-14
Gil Range: 128-280

EXP Average: 97
AP Average: 11
Gil Average: 201

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  18
10-15: 50
15-20: 110
20-25: 190
25-30: 280
30-35: 400
35-40: 520
40-45: 670
45-50: 840
50-55: 1030
55-60: 1240
60-65: 1560
65-70: 1740
70-75: 2000
75-80: 2290
80-85: 1980
85-90: 1970
90-95: 3360
95-99: 2960

Mastering Knights of the Round: 45,450 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8C. SPECIAL: CHOCOBO TRACKS I

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Grasslands Area, Chocobo Tracks (These battles may occur when the
'Chocobo Lure' Materia is equipped.)

Preparation- If you hope to catch a Chocobo, you may as well have some Greens.
They aren't necessary, however. Buy a Mimett Green if you want to get the Enemy
Skill Chocobuckle.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Mandragora  HP-120 MP-0  EXP-55 AP-6 Gil-135
Levrikon    HP-200 MP-0  EXP-65 AP-7 Gil-128
Elfadunk    HP-220 MP-34 EXP-64 AP-7 Gil-140

Chocobo  [Special Monster] (It is Level 16 with 2x Levrikon) [Chocobuckle]

Monster Groups

2x Levrikon + Chocobo           EXP-130 AP-14 Gil-256 (Not Recommended Chocobo)
2x Elfadunk + Chocobo           EXP-128 AP-14 Gil-280 (Not Recommended Chocobo)
Mandragora + Levrikon + Chocobo EXP-120 AP-13 Gil-263 (Not Very Good Chocobo)
2x Mandragora + Chocobo         EXP-110 AP-12 Gil-270 (Not Very Good Chocobo)

Monster Info- Chocobos are special creatures that you can catch, keep, and
breed at a certain point in disc 2. In disc 1, though, you can only catch and
ride them for a short time. To catch a Chocobo, you must eliminate ALL other
monsters in the battle WITHOUT harming the Chocobo in any way. You will see
some ratings above the Monster Groups section (Not Recommended, Not Very Good).
These state the Chocobo's type after you catch them and send them to some
stables later on in the game. As you can see, the ratings for these Chocobos
aren't very good.

You can acquire the Enemy Skill Chocobuckle from the Chocobo accompanied by two
Levrikons. How? First, you must throw a Mimett Green at the Chocobo. Next, you
should use the Enemy Skill Lv.4 Suicide on it. The Chocobo should cast it on
the character who damaged it. Voila.

Levrikons carry Ether, and Elfadunks can Sadden you. Mandragoras are very
resistant to Magic, so only use physical attacks on them.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 110-130
AP Range: 12-14
Gil Range: 256-280

EXP Average: 122
AP Average: 13
Gil Average: 267

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  15
10-15: 40
15-20: 80
20-25: 150
25-30: 220
30-35: 320
35-40: 420
40-45: 540
45-50: 670
50-55: 820
55-60: 990
60-65: 1240
65-70: 1380
70-75: 1590
75-80: 1820
80-85: 2400
85-90: 2390
90-95: 2670
95-99: 2350

Mastering Knights of the Round: 38,460 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8D. A MASSIVE SERPENT OVER 30 FEET LONG!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Grasslands Area, Swamp

Preparation- Do you want to get your hands on the Enemy Skill 'Beta' this
early? First, I suggest that you make sure your character with the Enemy Skill
Materia equipped has around 450+ HP. Next, give that same character a
Tranquilizer to make him Sad. Also, you had better give him a Fire-Elemental
combination in your Armor. Give him/her the Talisman as well. If you have some
Graviballs (randomly dropped by Deenglow in the Train Graveyard), that would be
good, too. Have Poison Materia equipped. Lastly, put all your characters in the
back row. It helps, trust me.

Training Rating: ** The Midgar Zolom takes too long to beat for what it gives
you.

Monsters in this Area

Midgar Zolom  HP-4000 MP-348 EXP-250 AP-25 Gil-400 [Beta]

Monster Groups

Midgar Zolom EXP-250 AP-25 Gil-400

Monster Info- Midgar Zolom has the Beta E-Skill, which is very powerful at this
point. Here's a strategy of how to get it.


###############################################################################

                          STRATEGY TO GET BETA


When the battle starts, use Bio to try and Poison the Zolom right away. Next,
have another character use a Graviball on the Zolom. After he loses about 1000
HP, the Zolom will suddenly get angry and lift most of its body up in the air.
During this phase, DO NOT have the character with E-Skill equipped attack the
Zolom. This could trigger the snake into whipping him/her right out of the
battle. Have your other characters continue to use Graviballs, spells, curing
the E-Skill character, or simply Defending. I personally just keep my
characters in [Defend], waiting for the poison to dwindle the Zolom's HP. It is
a priority that you keep the Enemy Skill equipped character's HP full as the
Zolom's HP goes down. Once you know that the Zolom's HP is less than 1000, have
a non-important character attack the Zolom. The huge snake should counter with
Beta, dealing 1000-1400 damage on all of your flunkies. The character with the
Fire-Elemental combo in his Armor should take damage below 500 (if he's in
Sadness). You should now have learned Beta, so use it against the Midgar Zolom
as payback. If the Zolom has under 1000 HP, this should kill him (to be safe,
hit him when his HP is around 800). Congratulations, you have just learned
Beta! You had better save soon, because the Zolom does not stay slain for long!

###############################################################################


Encounter Rate: *** You can see the Zolom homing in on you, so just run into
it.

EXP Range: 250
AP Range: 25
Gil Range: 400

EXP Average: 250
AP Average: 25
Gil Average: 400

Battle Average:


1-5:   1
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 70
25-30: 110
30-35: 160
35-40: 200
40-45: 260
45-50: 330
50-55: 400
55-60: 480
60-65: 610
65-70: 670
70-75: 780
75-80: 890
80-85: 1170
85-90: 1170
90-95: 1300
95-99: 1150

Mastering Knights of the Round: 20,000 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Midgar Zolom's normal attacks do around 400 damage, and
his Beta does 1000+. Excellent. Just, excellent.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9A. THE GATES OF THE MINES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mythril Mine, Entrance Areas (This accounts for two screens. The entrance
area from the Swamp, and the entrance area from Junon Area.)

Preparation- Equip a Fire-All/Quake-All or a Fire-Elemental/Quake-Elemental
(Weapon) combo. You can steal a decent weapon for Tifa in this area, so have
Steal allocated.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Madouge   HP-220 MP-0  EXP-70 AP-8 Gil-150 (Level 16)
Castanets HP-190 MP-0  EXP-65 AP-7 Gil-113
Crawler   HP-140 MP-48 EXP-56 AP-6 Gil-65

Monster Groups

2x Madouge + 3x Crawler  EXP-308 AP-34 Gil-495
4x Crawler               EXP-224 AP-24 Gil-260
3x Castanets             EXP-195 AP-21 Gil-339
2x Madouge               EXP-140 AP-16 Gil-300

Monster Info- Madouge carries Tifa's Grand Glove, a good weapon for her.
Crawlers are easily taken out by Quake-All, as they are weak against Earth.
Castanets are weak against Fire, for your information.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 140-308
AP Range: 16-34
Gil Range: 260-495

EXP Average: 217
AP Average: 24
Gil Average: 349

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  8
10-15: 20
15-20: 50
20-25: 80
25-30: 120
30-35: 180
35-40: 230
40-45: 300
45-50: 380
50-55: 460
55-60: 550
60-65: 700
65-70: 780
70-75: 900
75-80: 1020
80-85: 1350
85-90: 1340
90-95: 1500
95-99: 1320

Mastering Knights of the Round: 20,830 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9B. RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK DRAGONS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mythril Mine, Eastern Cavern (Long Range Materia is found in here.)

Preparation- Have Enemy Skill equipped to get Flamethrower. Put Choco/Mog-
Elemental in your Weapon to deal extra damage on the dragons here. Matra Magic
works exceptionally well against the groups of enemies that roam in this cave.
Fire-Elemental in your Armor is good for defense.

Training Rating: ****

Monsters in this Area

Ark Dragon  HP-280 MP-124 EXP-84 AP-10 Gil-180 [Flamethrower]
Castanets   HP-190 MP-0   EXP-65 AP-7  Gil-113
Crawler     HP-140 MP-48  EXP-56 AP-6  Gil-65

Monster Groups

2x Castanets + Crawler + Ark Dragon  EXP-270 AP-30 Gil-471
4x Castanets                         EXP-260 AP-28 Gil-375
3x Crawler + Ark Dragon              EXP-252 AP-28 Gil-375

Monster Info- Castanets are weak against Fire, and Crawlers are weak against
Earth. Ark Dragons use the Enemy Skill Flamethrower, plus they carry Ether. The
Ark Dragon cannot stand against Wind elementals.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 252-270
AP Range: 28-30
Gil Range: 375-471

EXP Average: 261
AP Average: 29
Gil Average: 407

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 70
25-30: 100
30-35: 150
35-40: 190
40-45: 250
45-50: 310
50-55: 380
55-60: 460
60-65: 580
65-70: 650
70-75: 750
75-80: 850
80-85: 1120
85-90: 1120
90-95: 1250
95-99: 1100

Mastering Knights of the Round: 17,240 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Ark Dragon's Flamethrower delivers good damage.

Level X-1 Opportunity- You will fight 4-5 enemies here. This is an excellent
place to start getting your better Limits.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9C. IT'S LIKE, THE WESTERN CAVE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mythril Mine, Western Cavern (Cave closest to Junon Area Entrance)

Preparation- Use Steal if you want Ether, and have a Choco/Mog-Elemental in
your Weapon. If you don't already have Flamethrower, equip the Enemy Skill
Materia. Matra Magic comes in handy, anyway.

Training Rating: ****

Monsters in this Area

Ark Dragon  HP-280 MP-124 EXP-84 AP-10 Gil-180 [Flamethrower]
Castanets   HP-190 MP-0   EXP-65 AP-7  Gil-113
Crawler     HP-140 MP-48  EXP-56 AP-6  Gil-65

Monster Groups

5x Crawler                           EXP-280 AP-30 Gil-325
2x Castanets + Crawler + Ark Dragon  EXP-270 AP-30 Gil-471
4x Castanets                         EXP-260 AP-28 Gil-375
3x Crawler + Ark Dragon              EXP-252 AP-28 Gil-375

Monster Info- Castanets are weak against Fire, and Crawlers are weak against
Earth. Ark Dragons use the Enemy Skill Flamethrower, plus they carry Ether. The
Ark Dragon cannot stand against Wind elementals.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 252-280
AP Range: 28-30
Gil Range: 325-471

EXP Average: 266
AP Average: 29
Gil Average: 387

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 70
25-30: 100
30-35: 150
35-40: 190
40-45: 250
45-50: 310
50-55: 380
55-60: 450
60-65: 570
65-70: 630
70-75: 730
75-80: 840
80-85: 1100
85-90: 1100
90-95: 1230
95-99: 1080

Mastering Knights of the Round: 17,240

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Ark Dragon's Flamethrower delivers decent damage.

Level X-1 Opportunity- You will fight 4-5 enemies here. This is an excellent
place to start getting your better Limits.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10A. IT'S SEPHIROTH, IT'S NERO, IT'S----NEROSUFEROTH!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon Area, Grasses

Preparation- If you have Steal on, you can steal a good weapon for Yuffie (you
can get her shortly). There are two enemies that are weak against Wind, so
equip Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon. If you want to defend yourself
against a rarely used attack by Zemzelett, allocate a Lightning-Elemental
combination in your armor.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Nerosuferoth  HP-150 MP-20  EXP-53 AP-5 Gil-146 (Level 16)
Formula       HP-240 MP-100 EXP-65 AP-7 Gil-120 (Level 16)
Zemzelett     HP-285 MP-36  EXP-70 AP-7 Gil-165 [White Wind]

Monster Groups

2x Nerosuferoth + Zemzelett  EXP-176 AP-17 Gil-457
2x Nerosuferoth + Formula    EXP-171 AP-17 Gil-412
3x Nerosuferoth              EXP-159 AP-15 Gil-438
2x Nerosuferoth              EXP-106 AP-10 Gil-292
Zemzelett                    EXP-70  AP-7  Gil-165

Monster Info- Formulas carry Boomerangs, so steal one of those. Formulas and
Zemzeletts are weak against Wind. To get Zemzelett's White Wind Enemy Skill,
you must go back to this area after you obtain the Manipulate Materia. Control
Zemzelett with Manipulate, then have him use White Wind on you.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 70-176
AP Range: 7-17
Gil Range: 165-457

EXP Average: 136
AP Average: 13
Gil Average: 353

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  13
10-15: 40
15-20: 80
20-25: 130
25-30: 200
30-35: 290
35-40: 370
40-45: 480
45-50: 600
50-55: 740
55-60: 880
60-65: 1110
65-70: 1240
70-75: 1430
75-80: 1640
80-85: 2150
85-90: 2140
90-95: 2400
95-99: 2110

Mastering Knights of the Round: 38,460 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Zemzelett sometimes uses an attack called Thunderbolt.
It does pretty high Lightning damage at this point in the game.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10B. JUNON DIRT

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon Area, Dirt

Preparation- Wear a Choco/Mog-Elemental combo in your Weapon. If you didn't
steal a Boomerang yet, I'd suggest that you do that now.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Hell Rider VR2  HP-350 MP-50  EXP-72 AP-8 Gil-130
Formula         HP-240 MP-100 EXP-65 AP-7 Gil-120 (Level 16)
Zemzelett       HP-285 MP-36  EXP-70 AP-7 Gil-165 [White Wind]

Monster Groups

2x Formula      EXP-130 AP-14 Gil-240
Hell Rider VR2  EXP-72  AP-8  Gil-130
Zemzelett       EXP-70  AP-7  Gil-165

Monster Info- Formulas and Zemzeletts are weak against Wind. Formulas also
carry Boomerangs. To get Zemzelett's White Wind Enemy Skill, you must use
Manipulate on it. Then, have him use White Wind on you.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 70-130
AP Range: 7-14
Gil Range: 130-240

EXP Average: 91
AP Average: 10
Gil Average: 178

Battle Average:

1-5:   3
5-10:  20
10-15: 60
15-20: 110
20-25: 200
25-30: 290
30-35: 430
35-40: 560
40-45: 720
45-50: 900
50-55: 1100
55-60: 1320
60-65: 1660
65-70: 1850
70-75: 2140
75-80: 2440
80-85: 3210
85-90: 3200
90-95: 3580
95-99: 3150

Mastering Knights of the Round: 50,000 battles

Limit Training

Level X-2 Opportunity- Hell Rider VR2's regular attacks do 120 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10C. BEACHING IT UP WITH THE CAPPARS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon Area, Beaches

Training Rating: *

Preparation- Need Ether? Have Steal equipped.

Monsters in this Area

Nerosuferoth  HP-150 MP-20 EXP-53 AP-5 Gil-146 (Level 16)
Capparwire    HP-210 MP-20 EXP-60 AP-6 Gil-103

Monster Groups

2x Capparwire + Nerosuferoth  EXP-173 AP-17 Gil-352
2x Capparwire                 EXP-120 AP-12 Gil-206
2x Nerosuferoth               EXP-106 AP-10 Gil-292

Monster Info- Capparwires carry Ether. That's pretty much it.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 106-173
AP Range: 10-17
Gil Range: 206-352

EXP Average: 133
AP Average: 13
Gil Average: 283

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  14
10-15: 40
15-20: 80
20-25: 140
25-30: 200
30-35: 290
35-40: 380
40-45: 490
45-50: 620
50-55: 750
55-60: 900
60-65: 1140
65-70: 1270
70-75: 1460
75-80: 1670
80-85: 2200
85-90: 2190
90-95: 2450
95-99: 2160

Mastering Knights of the Round: 38,460 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Capparwires often use an attack called Grand Spark. It
does around 120 points of non-elemental damage. Not bad, not bad.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10D. WHO IS DIS MYSTERY NINJA?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon Area, Forests

Preparation- Need Ether or some Boomerangs? Equip Steal. Choco/Mog-Elemental
(Weapon) helps here, too.

Training Rating: *** or **** It all depends on what level the Mystery Ninja is.

Monsters in this Area

Capparwire     HP-210 MP-20  EXP-60 AP-6 Gil-103
Formula        HP-240 MP-100 EXP-65 AP-7 Gil-120 (Level 16)

Mystery Ninja  (All stats dependent on Cloud's level) [Special Enemy]

Monster Groups

5x Capparwire  EXP-300 AP-30 Gil-515
3x Formula     EXP-195 AP-21 Gil-360
2x Capparwire  EXP-120 AP-12 Gil-206

Mystery Ninja  (All stats dependent on Cloud's level)

Monster Info- Capparwires carry Ether, and Formulas hold Boomerangs. Formulas
are weak against Wind.


###############################################################################


                          MYSTERY NINJA (YUFFIE)

                                   $

During some of your forest battling, you may encounter an enemy know as Mystery
Ninja. This girl is a secret character that can be recruited by making a few
specific responses at the end of the battle. Since this guide isn't meant for
stuff like that, I will not tell you how to get her on your team. I'm here to
talk about her stats. Her level is based on Cloud's level. So, if Cloud was
level 23, the Mystery Ninja would be at level 22. The Mystery Ninja has six
different forms. Here are the stats for each form. (Thanks, SRG!)

Mystery Ninja  HP-600 MP-117 EXP-160 AP-20 Gil-400 (Level 17)

Mystery Ninja  HP-800 MP-150 EXP-240 AP-40 Gil-800 (Level 22)

Mystery Ninja  HP-1120 MP-150 EXP-320 AP-60 Gil-1200 (Level 27)

Mystery Ninja  HP-1500 MP-234 EXP-480 AP-80 Gil-1600 (Level 32)

Mystery Ninja  HP-1950 MP-280 EXP-640 AP-100 Gil-2000 (Level 37)

Mystery Ninja  HP-2400 MP-325 EXP-720 AP-120 Gil-2400 (Level 42)

###############################################################################


Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: (Completely ignoring Mystery Ninja's Presence) 120-300
AP Range: 12-30
Gil Range: 206-515

EXP Average: 205
AP Average: 21
Gil Average: 360

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  9
10-15: 30
15-20: 50
20-25: 90
25-30: 130
30-35: 190
35-40: 250
40-45: 320
45-50: 400
50-55: 490
55-60: 590
60-65: 740
65-70: 820
70-75: 950
75-80: 1080
80-85: 1430
85-90: 1420
90-95: 1590
95-99: 1400

Mastering Knights of the Round: 23,810 battles

Limit Training

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Capparwire's Grand Spark does fairly high damage.
Depending on the Mystery Ninja's Level, she can do some good smacking as well.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10E. SPECIAL: CHOCOBO TRACKS II

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon Area, Chocobo Tracks (Chocobo Lure must be equipped)

Preparation- If you need Ether, have Steal on.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Capparwire   HP-210 MP-20 EXP-60 AP-6 Gil-103
Nerosuferoth HP-150 MP-20 EXP-53 AP-5 Gil-146 (Level 16)

Chocobo      [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

3x Capparwire + Chocobo   EXP-180 AP-18 Gil-309 (Chocobo is 'Not Bad')
2x Capparwire + Chocobo   EXP-120 AP-12 Gil-206 (Not Very Good Chocobo)
2x Nerosuferoth + Chocobo EXP-106 AP-10 Gil-292 (Not Very Good Chocobo)

Monster Info- Chocobos are special creatures that you can catch, keep, and
breed at a certain point in disc 2. In disc 1, though, you can only catch and
ride them for a short time. To catch a Chocobo, you must eliminate ALL other
monsters in the battle WITHOUT harming the Chocobo in any way. You will see
some ratings above the Monster Groups section (Not Recommended, Not Very Good).
These state the Chocobo's type after you catch them and send them to some
stables later on in the game. The Chocobos here aren't much better than the
ones at the farms.

Capparwires carry Ether.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 106-180
AP Range: 10-18
Gil Range: 206-309

EXP Average: 135
AP Average: 13
Gil Average: 269

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  13
10-15: 40
15-20: 80
20-25: 140
25-30: 200
30-35: 290
35-40: 380
40-45: 480
45-50: 610
50-55: 740
55-60: 890
60-65: 1120
65-70: 1250
70-75: 1440
75-80: 1650
80-85: 2170
85-90: 2160
90-95: 2410
95-99: 2120

Mastering Knights of the Round: 38,460 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Capparwire's Grand Spark does relatively high damage.

Anything Else- You should buy a set of Headbands and/or Silver Glasses for your
party if you plan to fight a lot in the Cargo Ship coming up.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10F. THE FEW. THE PROUD. THE MARINES.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cargo Ship

Preparation- Wear either a Headband or Silver Glasses (I prefer Silver Glasses,
because Darkness irritates me more). Steal should be equipped to grab a better
piece of armor for your party. Fire-Elemental/Ice-Elemental in your Armor is a
good investment, too. Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon is also optional.

Training Rating: *** The Mythril Mine's Western Cavern is better than this.

Monsters in this Area

Marine      HP-300 MP-20 EXP-75 AP-8 Gil-150 (Level 16)
Scrutin Eye HP-240 MP-60 EXP-80 AP-8 Gil-120

Monster Groups

4x Scrutin Eye  EXP-320 AP-32 Gil-480
3x Marine       EXP-225 AP-24 Gil-450
2x Marine       EXP-150 AP-16 Gil-300

Monster Info- Marine's always start the battle off with their Sleep Gun
(Sleep+Darkness), so be prepared. They carry Shinra Betas, which are quite
difficult to steal. I like to use Lv.4 Suicide on the Marines before I start
stealing, so I don't have to worry about my HP. Scrutin Eyes carry Ether and
are weak against Wind.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 150-320
AP Range: 16-32
Gil Range: 300-480

EXP Average: 232
AP Average: 24
Gil Average: 410

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  8
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 80
25-30: 110
30-35: 170
35-40: 220
40-45: 280
45-50: 350
50-55: 430
55-60: 520
60-65: 650
65-70: 730
70-75: 840
75-80: 960
80-85: 1260
85-90: 1260
90-95: 1400
95-99: 1240

Mastering Knights of the Round:  20,830 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Scrutin Eyes use Fire2 and Ice2, which can weather a
nice chunk of your HP away.

Anything Else- Once you get to Costa del Sol, I recommend that you buy some
Platinum Bangles from a disturbed man in the bar. This piece of armor may look
shallow with only two unlinked slots, but the AP Growth is DOUBLE (for example,
Cloud would get 64 AP after a battle against four Scrutin Eyes rather than 32
AP). Very useful indeed.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11A. GRANGALAN (A.K.A. BIG, WOODEN, EASTER EGGS)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Area, Grasses

Preparation- To easily trigger the Grangalans into releasing their 'children',
I suggest that you equip weak weapons and/or go in the Back Row. Or, you could
always have Cure equipped and use it on them until they split.

Training Rating: *** If you always make the Grangalans divide, you'll get a
decent amount of EXP, AP, and Gil. However, this method will seem like forever
to impatient gamers. I am going to be optimistic and assume that you will split
up and kill every Grangalan when a battle starts.

Monsters in this Area

Grangalan         HP-550 MP-60 EXP-88 AP-10 Gil-220 (Level 16)
Grangalan Jr.     HP-330 MP-40 EXP-77 AP-8  Gil-110 [Special Monster]
Grangalan Jr. Jr. HP-110 MP-20 EXP-66 AP-6  Gil-55  [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

Grangalan + Grangalan Jr. + 3x Grangalan Jr. Jr.  EXP-363 AP-36 Gil-495


Monster Info- All battles will start with only one Grangalan. After taking
about three hits (damaged or cured), the Grangalan will release a Grangalan Jr.
After taking about two hits (damaged or cured), the Grangalan Jr. will release
three Grangalan Jr. Jrs. If you kill the Grangalan at any time, the battle will
end (giving you EXP, AP, and Gil only from the monsters you killed).

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 363 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 36
Gil Range: 495

EXP Average: 363
AP Average: 36
Gil Average: 495

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  5
10-15: 10
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 70
30-35: 110
35-40: 140
40-45: 180
45-50: 230
50-55: 280
55-60: 330
60-65: 420
65-70: 460
70-75: 540
75-80: 610
80-85: 810
85-90: 800
90-95: 900
95-99: 790

Mastering Knights of the Round: 13,890 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- If you make every Grangalan come out for each battle,
you will always get 5 kills. That is almost perfect for racking up kills.

NOTE: All of the above data tables assume that you will split and kill every
Grangalan during every battle.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11B. CLOGGING UP THE WATER WITH SOME BEACH PLUGS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Area, Beaches

Preparation- There are Grangalans here, so you can put your characters in the
back row if you want to split those Egg monsters up more easily. Sadly, that
may hinder your performance against the Beach Plugs.

Training Rating: *** This place isn't half bad, if you can put up with
Grangalan.

Monsters in this Area

Grangalan         HP-550 MP-60  EXP-88 AP-10 Gil-220 (Level 16)
Grangalan Jr.     HP-330 MP-40  EXP-77 AP-8  Gil-110 [Special Monster]
Grangalan Jr. Jr. HP-110 MP-20  EXP-66 AP-6  Gil-55  [Special Monster]
Beach Plug        HP-200 MP-100 EXP-95 AP-10 Gil-155 (Level 16) [Big Guard]

Monster Groups

4x Beach Plug                                     EXP-380 AP-40 Gil-620
Grangalan + Grangalan Jr. + 3x Grangalan Jr. Jr.  EXP-363 AP-36 Gil-495
3x Beach Plug                                     EXP-285 AP-30 Gil-465

Monster Info- After taking about three hits (damaged or cured), a Grangalan
will release a Grangalan Jr. After taking about two hits (damaged or cured),
the Grangalan Jr. will release three Grangalan Jr. Jrs. If you kill the
Grangalan at any time, the battle will end (giving you EXP, AP, and Gil only
from the monsters you killed). Beach Plugs have the Enemy Skill Big Guard, but
you can only get it by manipulating one.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 285-380 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 30-40
Gil Range: 465-620

EXP Average: 343
AP Average: 35
Gil Average: 527

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  6
10-15: 20
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 150
40-45: 190
45-50: 240
50-55: 290
55-60: 350
60-65: 440
65-70: 490
70-75: 570
75-80: 650
80-85: 850
85-90: 850
90-95: 950
95-99: 840

Mastering Knights of the Round: 14,290 battles

NOTE: All of the above data tables assume that you will be splitting and
killing every possible Grangalan in the Grangalan battles.

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- If you make the Grangalans split every time, you'll get
3-5 kills per battle. That's pretty good.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11C. "NEEDLE KISS LOOKS LIKE THAT ZAPDOS POKEMON." -COUSIN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Area, Mountain Pass/Bridge (World Map)

Preparation- You can get petrified here, but only after a timer runs out. I
doubt it'd take you that long to win a battle, right? If you're paranoid, buy
some Softs at Costa del Sol. If you want to deal more damage, equip Choco/Mog-
Elemental in your Weapon. If you want to protect yourself, equip a Lightning-
Elemental combo (or a Bolt Ring if you got one).

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Needle Kiss  HP-180 MP-40 EXP-75 AP-8  Gil-130
Cokatolis    HP-420 MP-0  EXP-97 AP-10 Gil-168

Monster Groups

2x Needle Kiss + Cokatolis  EXP-247 AP-26 Gil-428
2x Needle Kiss              EXP-150 AP-16 Gil-260

Monster Info- Needle Kisses are weak against Wind. Cokatolis can put Slow-Numb
on you.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 150-247
AP Range: 16-27
Gil Range: 260-428

EXP Average: 199
AP Average: 21
Gil Average: 344

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  9
10-15: 30
15-20: 50
20-25: 90
25-30: 130
30-35: 200
35-40: 250
40-45: 330
45-50: 410
50-55: 500
55-60: 600
60-65: 760
65-70: 850
70-75: 980
75-80: 1120
80-85: 1470
85-90: 1460
90-95: 1640
95-99: 1440

Mastering Knights of the Round: 23,810 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- A Needle Kiss's Thunder Kiss does around 170 points of
Thunder damage. That should help bring up that gauge.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12A. MT. COREL-COSTA DEL SOL ENTRANCE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Corel, Corel Area Entrance (This area goes all the way up to the
North Corel Reactor zone.)

Preparation- There are several things you can do to prepare yourself. To
protect yourself from Bagnadrana's Poison Breath, equip a Star Pendant. To
defend against the Thunder Kiss, wear a Lightning-Elemental combo in your
Armor. To cut down Poison Breath's bite, equip Poison-Elemental in your Armor.
To deal more damage to Needle Kisses, use Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon.
To freeze up the Bagnadrana, wear Ice-Elemental in your Weapon. Have Steal
ready to grab a good weapon for Red XIII and some Turbo Ether. Later on, when
you get Morph, you can use that to convert the Bagnadrana into a Guard Source,
very useful.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Needle Kiss  HP-180 MP-40 EXP-75  AP-8  Gil-130
Bagnadrana   HP-450 MP-60 EXP-110 AP-11 Gil-120 (Level 16)
Search Crown HP-150 MP-30 EXP-80  AP-8  Gil-111 (Level 16)

Monster Groups

3x Search Crown + Needle Kiss           EXP-315 AP-32 Gil-463
Needle Kiss + Bagnadrana + Search Crown EXP-265 AP-27 Gil-361
3x Needle Kiss                          EXP-225 AP-24 Gil-390

Monster Info- Bagnadranas are weak against Cold, carry Diamond Pins (Weapon for
Red), and can be Morphed later on into a Guard Source. Search Crowns carry
Turbo Ether, but it's somewhat difficult to take. Needle Kisses are weak
against Wind.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 225-315
AP Range: 24-32
Gil Range: 361-463

EXP Average: 268
AP Average: 28
Gil Average: 405

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 70
25-30: 100
30-35: 140
35-40: 190
40-45: 240
45-50: 310
50-55: 370
55-60: 450
60-65: 560
65-70: 630
70-75: 730
75-80: 830
80-85: 1090
85-90: 1090
90-95: 1220
95-99: 1070

Mastering Knights of the Round: 17,860 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Bagnadrana's Poison Breath does good damage.

Level X-1 Opportunity- There are 3-4 enemies per battle. It's okay.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12B. REACTOR NUMBER 27

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Reactor

Preparation- Equip stuff that protects you from Poison. Choco/Mog-Elemental or
Ice-Elemental in a Weapon would be good, too. If you still want a Diamond Pin,
equip Steal. When you get Morph, you can use that to make some Guard Sources
here.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Bagnadrana  HP-450 MP-60 EXP-110 AP-11 Gil-120 (Level 16)
Bloatfloat  HP-240 MP-0  EXP-90  AP-9  Gil-125

Monster Groups

4x Bloatfloat              EXP-360 AP-36 Gil-500
2x Bloatfloat + Bagnadrana EXP-290 AP-29 Gil-370
3x Bloatfloat              EXP-270 AP-27 Gil-375
2x Bagnadrana              EXP-220 AP-22 Gil-240

Monster Info- Bagnadranas are weak against Cold, they carry Diamond Pins, and
can be Morphed into Guard Sources. Bloatfloats just so happen to be weak
against Wind.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 220-360
AP Range: 22-36
Gil Range: 240-500

EXP Average: 285
AP Average: 29
Gil Average: 371

Battle Average:

 1-5:  1
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 60
25-30: 90
30-35: 140
35-40: 180
40-45: 230
45-50: 290
50-55: 350
55-60: 420
60-65: 530
65-70: 590
70-75: 680
75-80: 780
80-85: 1030
85-90: 1020
90-95: 1140
95-99: 1010

Mastering Knights of the Round: 17,240 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Bagnadrana's Poison Breath does a nice amount of
damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12C. BARRET AND DYNE'S FAILED ESCAPE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Corel, Near the Bridge (You'll see some railroad tracks and some
rocky ground below it)

Preparation- The Seal Materia should be equipped on one of your characters.
Choco/Mog-Elemental (Weapon) provides extra attack power against Bloatfloats.
Fire-Elemental will protect you from a Bomb's Fireball attack. If you want some
Right Arms, Steal is a good thing to have ready.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Bloatfloat  HP-240 MP-0  EXP-90  AP-9  Gil-125
Cokatolis   HP-420 MP-0  EXP-97  AP-10 Gil-168
Bomb        HP-600 MP-30 EXP-150 AP-20 Gil-192

Monster Groups

2x Bomb                    EXP-300 AP-40 Gil-384
Cokatolis + 2x Bloatfloat  EXP-277 AP-28 Gil-418
2x Cokatolis               EXP-194 AP-20 Gil-336
Bomb                       EXP-150 AP-20 Gil-192

Monster Info- Bloatfloats are weak against Wind. Bombs don't take damage from
Fire, so don't bother using it. Cokatolis can Slow-Numb you, but that isn't
much of a threat. Bombs carry Right Arms, a powerful attack Item that does
around 1100-1300 damage to all opponents. Bombs explode after being hit twice,
and then you won't be able to get any EXP, AP, or Gil from them. After being
hit once, the Bombs will bloat up and start using more powerful attacks. To
kill Bombs easily without the risk of them exploding, use Sleepel on them.
Then, just use spells until they die.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 150-300
AP Range: 20-40
Gil Range: 192-418

EXP Average: 230
AP Average: 27
Gil Average: 333

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  8
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 80
25-30: 120
30-35: 170
35-40: 220
40-45: 280
45-50: 360
50-55: 440
55-60: 520
60-65: 660
65-70: 730
70-75: 850
75-80: 970
80-85: 1270
85-90: 1270
90-95: 1420
95-99: 1250

Mastering Knights of the Round: 18,520 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- When a Bomb is in its 'bloated' form, it starts to use
an attack called Fireball. That does around 200 points of Fire damage. Their
Bomb Blast does around 450 points of damage. Sweet.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12D. THEY'RE NOT JUST FOR HAULING COAL ANYMORE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Mt. Corel, Train Bridge (Save Point is located here.)

Preparation- Equip Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon, or a Lightning-Elemental
in your Armor.

Training Rating: *** The battles with only one Cokatolis are rare.

Monsters in this Area

Cokatolis   HP-420 MP-0  EXP-97 AP-10 Gil-168
Needle Kiss HP-180 MP-40 EXP-75 AP-8  Gil-130

Monster Groups

3x Needle Kiss + Cokatolis  EXP-322 AP-34 Gil-558
Cokatolis                   EXP-97  AP-10 Gil-168

Monster Info- Needle Kisses are weak against Wind. Cokatolis can Slow-Numb you.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 97-322
AP Range: 10-34
Gil Range: 168-558

EXP Average: 210
AP Average: 22
Gil Average: 363

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  9
10-15: 30
15-20: 50
20-25: 90
25-30: 130
30-35: 180
35-40: 240
40-45: 310
45-50: 390
50-55: 480
55-60: 570
60-65: 720
65-70: 800
70-75: 930
75-80: 1060
80-85: 1390
85-90: 1390
90-95: 1550
95-99: 1370

Mastering Knights of the Round: 22,730 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12E. "OH, CLOUD! YOUR HAIR LOOKS LIKE A CHOCOBO!" -TIFA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Corel, Drawbridge Area (You can find the baby birds and 10x Phoenix
Down here.)

Preparation- You have several options. You could have a Ice-Elemental/ChocoMog-
Elemental in your Weapon. Or, you could have Lightning-Elemental/Poison-
Elemental in your Armor. Wear some Star Pendants. If you want a Diamond Pin or
some Turbo Ether, equip Steal. If you need Guard Sources, come back here later
when you get Morph. Matra Magic thins the Search Crown herds.

Training Rating: ****

Monsters in this Area

Needle Kiss  HP-180 MP-40 EXP-75  AP-8  Gil-130
Bagnadrana   HP-450 MP-60 EXP-110 AP-11 Gil-120 (Level 16)
Search Crown HP-150 MP-30 EXP-80  AP-8  Gil-111 (Level 16)

Monster Groups

5x Search Crown                  EXP-400 AP-40 Gil-555
3x Search Crown + 2x Needle Kiss EXP-390 AP-40 Gil-593
2x Needle Kiss + Bagnadrana      EXP-260 AP-27 Gil-380

Monster Info- Search Crowns carry valuable Turbo Ether. Needle Kisses are weak
against Wind. Bagnadranas carry Diamond Pins, are weak against Cold, and can be
Morphed into Guard Sources.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 260-400
AP Range: 27-40
Gil Range: 380-593

EXP Average: 350
AP Average: 36
Gil Average: 509

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  5
10-15: 20
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 140
40-45: 190
45-50: 230
50-55: 290
55-60: 340
60-65: 430
65-70: 480
70-75: 560
75-80: 640
80-85: 840
85-90: 830
90-95: 930
95-99: 820

Mastering Knights of the Round: 13,890 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Bagnadrana's Poison Breath deals pretty high damage.

Level X-1 Opportunity- You will encounter 3-5 enemies here. That is great!




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12F. WOW, ANOTHER BRIDGE!!!!!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Corel, North Corel Entrance (You're on a bridge of sorts.)

Preparation- Have Seal on one of your characters. Fire-Elemental in your Armor
couldn't hurt, either. If you want/need some Right Arms, this is a good place
to start stealing them.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Bomb       HP-600 MP-30 EXP-150 AP-20 Gil-192
Cokatolis  HP-420 MP-0  EXP-97  AP-10 Gil-168

Monster Groups

3x Cokatolis  EXP-291 AP-30 Gil-504
Bomb          EXP-150 AP-20 Gil-192

Monster Info- Cokatolis can Slow-Numb you, but you don't really have to worry
about that. Bombs carry a powerful attack Item known as a Right Arm. To kill
Bombs, I recommend that you put them to sleep first. Then, start hammering them
with spells. When hit twice, they explode on you. Ugh, that hurts.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 150-291
AP Range: 20-30
Gil Range: 192-504

EXP Average: 221
AP Average: 25
Gil Average: 348

Battle Average:

 1-5:  1
5-10:  8
10-15: 20
15-20: 50
20-25: 80
25-30: 120
30-35: 180
35-40: 230
40-45: 300
45-50: 370
50-55: 450
55-60: 540
60-65: 680
65-70: 760
70-75: 880
75-80: 1010
80-85: 1320
85-90: 1320
90-95: 1470
95-99: 1300

Mastering Knights of the Round: 20,000 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- When you fight a Bomb, attack it once. This should make
it 'bloat up'. He can then use his Fireball attack, dealing around 200 points
of Fire damage on a character. His Bomb Blast does around 450 damage, but you
don't get any EXP when he does that.

Anything Else- When you're in North Corel, you should buy a Force Stealer for
Cloud if you don't already have one. This sword has DOUBLE AP Growth.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13A. STRAIGHT FLUSH FROM A JOKER

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gold Saucer Area, Grasses

Preparation- Wear Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon. Sure, it may look silly
to have a Chocobo in your blade, but 2/3 of the enemies in these plains are
weak against Wind. If you are afraid of the Joker drawing his [Death] card,
then equip a Safety Bit, cast Death Force on yourself, or use Destruct-Added
Effect in your Armor (all of these methods can only be used later on).

Training Rating: **** I'm only giving this a four because its numbers are a
significant jump over the previous areas covered. After you get your first form
of transportation, though, this area instantly becomes obsolete.

Monsters in this Area

Flapbeat  HP-330 MP-60 EXP-140 AP-15 Gil-186
Joker     HP-370 MP-0  EXP-150 AP-30 Gil-260
Spencer   HP-250 MP-0  EXP-110 AP-11 Gil-175

Monster Groups

3x Spencer + Flapbeat  EXP-470 AP-48 Gil-711
2x Flapbeat + Joker    EXP-430 AP-60 Gil-632
3x Flapbeat            EXP-420 AP-45 Gil-558
2x Joker               EXP-300 AP-60 Gil-520

Monster Info- Flapbeats and Jokers are weak against Wind. Flapbeats often drop
T/S Bombs, which have the same effect as a Demi2 spell (target's HP is reduced
by one half, damage cannot exceed 9999).

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 300-470
AP Range: 45-60
Gil Range: 520-711

EXP Average: 405
AP Average: 53
Gil Average: 605

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  5
10-15: 10
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 70
30-35: 100
35-40: 130
40-45: 160
45-50: 200
50-55: 250
55-60: 300
60-65: 370
65-70: 420
70-75: 480
75-80: 550
80-85: 720
85-90: 720
90-95: 800
95-99: 710

Mastering Knights of the Round: 9,430 battles

Limit Training

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Flapbeat's Flying Sickle does some good damage to
your characters.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13B. GRANGALANS, AGAIN?!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gold Saucer Area, Beaches

Preparation- There are Grangalans here, so you can put your characters in the
back row if you want to split those Egg monsters up more easily. Sadly, that
may hinder your performance against the Beach Plugs.

Training Rating: ** This place is exactly the same as Corel's coast, so it
loses a lot of its charm.

Monsters in this Area

Grangalan         HP-550 MP-60  EXP-88 AP-10 Gil-220 (Level 16)
Grangalan Jr.     HP-330 MP-40  EXP-77 AP-8  Gil-110 [Special Monster]
Grangalan Jr. Jr. HP-110 MP-20  EXP-66 AP-6  Gil-55  [Special Monster]
Beach Plug        HP-200 MP-100 EXP-95 AP-10 Gil-155 (Level 16) [Big Guard]

Monster Groups

4x Beach Plug                                     EXP-380 AP-40 Gil-620
Grangalan + Grangalan Jr. + 3x Grangalan Jr. Jr.  EXP-363 AP-36 Gil-495
3x Beach Plug                                     EXP-285 AP-30 Gil-465

Monster Info- After taking about three hits (damaged or cured), a Grangalan
will release a Grangalan Jr. After taking about two hits (damaged or cured),
the Grangalan Jr. will release three Grangalan Jr. Jrs. If you kill the
Grangalan at any time, the battle will end (giving you EXP, AP, and Gil only
from the monsters you killed). Beach Plugs have the Enemy Skill Big Guard, but
you can only get it by manipulating one.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 285-380 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 30-40
Gil Range: 465-620

EXP Average: 343
AP Average: 35
Gil Average: 527

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  6
10-15: 20
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 150
40-45: 190
45-50: 240
50-55: 290
55-60: 350
60-65: 440
65-70: 490
70-75: 570
75-80: 650
80-85: 850
85-90: 850
90-95: 950
95-99: 840

Mastering Knights of the Round: 14,290 battles

NOTE: All of the above data tables assume that you will be splitting and
killing every possible Grangalan in the Grangalan battles.

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- If you make the Grangalans split every time, you'll get
3-5 kills per battle. That's pretty good.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13C. SPECIAL: CHOCOBO TRACKS III

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gold Saucer Area, Chocobo Tracks (Chocobo Lure must be equipped.)

Preparation- Wear Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon. Harpies can Poison you,
so equip a few Star Pendants if you're scared. Once you get Leviathan Materia,
use a Leviathan-Elemental combo in your Armor. When you have Morph, you can
make some Elixirs here, too.

Training Rating: * By now, I hope you've realized that Chocobo tracks are NOT
for leveling. I recommend you just get Aqualung, then get the heck outta here.

Monsters in this Area

Harpy    HP-800 MP-200 EXP-148 AP-14 Gil-210 [Aqualung]
Flapbeat HP-330 MP-60  EXP-140 AP-15 Gil-186
Spencer  HP-250 MP-0   EXP-110 AP-11 Gil-175

Chocobo  [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

2x Flapbeat + Chocobo  EXP-280 AP-30 Gil-372 (Average Chocobo)
2x Spencer + Chocobo   EXP-220 AP-22 Gil-350 (Good Chocobo)
Harpy + Chocobo        EXP-148 AP-14 Gil-210 (Average Chocobo)

Monster Info- Chocobos are special creatures that you can catch, keep, and
breed at a certain point in disc 2. In disc 1, though, you can only catch and
ride them for a short time. To catch a Chocobo, you must eliminate ALL other
monsters in the battle WITHOUT harming the Chocobo in any way. You will see
some ratings above the Monster Groups section (Not Recommended, Not Very Good).
These state the Chocobo's type after you catch them and send them to some
stables later on in the game. The only Chocobo worth getting here later on is
the Good Chocobo, as it can help you breed very special Chocobos.

Flapbeats are weak against Wind, and often drop T/S Bombs. Harpies use the
Enemy Skill Aqualung, which is my favorite of the Enemy Skills. When you get
the Morph Materia, you can change Harpies into Elixirs.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 148-280
AP Range: 14-30
Gil Range: 210-372

EXP Average: 216
AP Average: 22
Gil Average: 311

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  9
10-15: 20
15-20: 50
20-25: 80
25-30: 120
30-35: 180
35-40: 230
40-45: 300
45-50: 380
50-55: 460
55-60: 560
60-65: 700
65-70: 780
70-75: 900
75-80: 1030
80-85: 1350
85-90: 1350
90-95: 1510
95-99: 1330

Mastering Knights of the Round: 22,730 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Harpy's Aqualung does very high damage to all of your
party members (in the 500s, if I recall correctly).




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14A. GATEWAY TO HEAVEN, EHEHEHEHEHEH!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Prison, Town Area

Training Rating: ** AP Averages below 30 are starting to make me cry.

Monsters in this Area

Two-Faced  HP-330 MP-80 EXP-100 AP-10 Gil-156
Bandit     HP-360 MP-0  EXP-99  AP-10 Gil-220

Monsters Groups

3x Two-Faced          EXP-300 AP-30 Gil-468
2x Two-Faced + Bandit EXP-299 AP-30 Gil-532
2x Bandit + Two-Faced EXP-298 AP-30 Gil-596
2x Bandit             EXP-198 AP-20 Gil-440

Monster Info- Bandits steal from you and rob you of Gil. Kill them ASAP. Two-
Face sometimes likes to Self-Destruct in two ways. Sometimes he will blow up
after casting Cure3 on your entire party (very good), or he will blow up,
reducing one character's HP by 75%.

Encounter Rate: * Thank goodness!

EXP Range: 198-300
AP Range: 20-30
Gil Range: 440-596

EXP Average: 274
AP Average: 28
Gil Average: 509

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 70
25-30: 100
30-35: 140
35-40: 190
40-45: 240
45-50: 300
50-55: 370
55-60: 440
60-65: 550
65-70: 610
70-75: 710
75-80: 810
80-85: 1070
85-90: 1060
90-95: 1190
95-99: 1050

Mastering Knights of the Round: 17,860 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- It takes a while, but getting the Two-Faces to blow up
on you really fills your Limit gauge up.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14B. WHICH WAY? TO DESERT, OR TO DYNE?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Prison, Desert/Junkyard Split (you should see one guy walking
around in this area.)

Preparation- Have Steal, Manipulate, and Enemy Skill equipped.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Bullmotor  HP-420 MP-96  EXP-92  AP-9  Gil-140 [Matra Magic]
Deathclaw  HP-400 MP-120 EXP-96  AP-10 Gil-168 [Laser]
Bandit     HP-360 MP-0   EXP-99  AP-10 Gil-220
Two-Faced  HP-330 MP-80  EXP-100 AP-10 Gil-156

Monster Groups

4x Bullmotor              EXP-368 AP-36 Gil-560
2x Bandit + Two-Faced     EXP-298 AP-30 Gil-596
2x Deathclaw + Bullmotor  EXP-284 AP-29 Gil-476

Monster Info- Bandits like to steal from you. Two-Faces sometimes blow up and
Cure you or reduce your HP by 75%. Deathclaws cast Barrier and Mbarrier a lot.
Bullmotors use the Enemy Skill Matra Magic, so learn it if you haven't already
done so. To get the Deathclaw's Laser Enemy Skill more easily, simply
Manipulate it and have it cast it on you. Bullmotors carry X-Potions, the best
type of Potion out there. Deathclaws carry Platinum Bangles, armor with DOUBLE
AP Growth.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 284-368
AP Range: 29-36
Gil Range: 476-596

EXP Average: 317
AP Average: 32
Gil Average: 544

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  6
10-15: 20
15-20: 30
20-25: 60
25-30: 80
30-35: 120
35-40: 160
40-45: 210
45-50: 260
50-55: 320
55-60: 380
60-65: 480
65-70: 530
70-75: 610
75-80: 700
80-85: 920
85-90: 920
90-95: 1030
95-99: 900

Mastering Knights of the Round: 15,630 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Manipulate a Deathclaw and have it Laser your party
members. This is an excellent tactic if your characters' HP is full.

Level X-1 Opportunity- There are 3-4 enemies here. Nothing great, but it may be
worth it to get a few kills in.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14C. IS IT JUST ME, OR IS THIS PLACE GETTING HOT?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Prison, THE DESERT

Preparation- Earth-Elemental in your Armor is your friend. You could have an
Ice-Elemental combo in your Weapon instead. Make sure to have Choco/Mog on one
of your characters, it's the only way I know of to beat the Cactuar with ease.

Training Rating: *** Land Worms are pretty much the only enemy that appears.

Monsters in this Area

Land Worm  HP-1500 MP-80 EXP-400 AP-40 Gil-256
Cactuar    HP-???  MP-?? EXP-0   AP-0  Gil-10,000 (!)

Monster Groups

Land Worm  EXP-400 AP-40 Gil-256
Cactuar    EXP-0   AP-0  Gil-10,000

Monster Info- Land Worms appeared over 90% of the time in my game. Out of the
fifty battles I fought here in my last game, I only crossed paths with four
Cactuars. This being the case, all of my EXP Average and Battle Average data
will be immensely warped from reality. In fact, I'd advise you to ignore it
completely.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 0-400
AP Range: 0-40
Gil Range: 256-10,000

EXP Average: 200
AP Average: 20
Gil Average: 5128

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  9
10-15: 30
15-20: 50
20-25: 90
25-30: 130
30-35: 190
35-40: 250
40-45: 330
45-50: 410
50-55: 500
55-60: 600
60-65: 760
65-70: 840
70-75: 970
75-80: 1110
80-85: 1460
85-90: 1460
90-95: 1630
95-99: 1430

Mastering Knights of the Round: 25,000 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14D. MEANER THAN A JUNKYARD DAWG

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Prison, Junkyard

Preparation- Have Steal, Manipulate, and Enemy Skill equipped (if you didn't
get Laser or Matra Magic).

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Bullmotor  HP-420 MP-96  EXP-92  AP-9  Gil-140 [Matra Magic]
Deathclaw  HP-400 MP-120 EXP-96  AP-10 Gil-168 [Laser]

Monster Groups

4x Bullmotor             EXP-368 AP-36 Gil-560
2x Deathclaw + Bullmotor EXP-284 AP-29 Gil-476
2x Deathclaw             EXP-192 AP-20 Gil-336

Monster Info- Deathclaws cast Barrier and Mbarrier a lot.
Bullmotors use the Enemy Skill Matra Magic, so learn it if you haven't already
done so. To get the Deathclaw's Laser Enemy Skill more easily, simply
Manipulate it and have it cast it on you. Bullmotors carry X-Potions, the best
type of Potion out there. Deathclaws carry Platinum Bangles, armor with DOUBLE
AP Growth.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 192-368
AP Range: 20-36
Gil Range: 336-560

EXP Average: 281
AP Average: 28
Gil Average: 457

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 60
25-30: 90
30-35: 140
35-40: 180
40-45: 230
45-50: 290
50-55: 360
55-60: 430
60-65: 540
65-70: 600
70-75: 690
75-80: 790
80-85: 1040
85-90: 1040
90-95: 1160
95-99: 1020

Mastering Knights of the Round: 17,860 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Manipulate a Deathclaw, then have it cast Laser on you.
It is very useful when your character has nearly full health.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

15A. "ISN'T THERE A MORE POWERFUL VEHICLE?" -CLOUD

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gold Saucer Area, Desert (Battles can only be fought while you have
possession of the Buggy.)

Preparation- Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon will help you to take down some
Flapbeats. Leviathan-Elemental can be used in your Armor once you get it.
Poison Protection is also optional (i.e. Star Pendants, Poison-Elemental Armor,
Fairy Ring, etcetera). Bring Morph later on for some Elixir-building.

Training Rating: * Now that you have the Buggy, there's better areas to
explore!

Monsters in this Area

Harpy    HP-800 MP-200 EXP-148 AP-14 Gil-210 [Aqualung]
Flapbeat HP-330 MP-60  EXP-140 AP-15 Gil-186

Monster Groups

4x Flapbeat  EXP-560 AP-60 Gil-744
Harpy        EXP-148 AP-14 Gil-210

Monster Info- Flapbeats often drop T/S Bombs, and are weak against Wind.
Harpies use Aqualung, a valuable Enemy Skill that's worth learning. They can
also be Morphed into Elixirs.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 148-560
AP Range: 14-60
Gil Range: 210-744

EXP Average: 354
AP Average: 37
Gil Average: 477

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  5
10-15: 10
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 140
40-45: 180
45-50: 230
50-55: 280
55-60: 340
60-65: 430
65-70: 480
70-75: 550
75-80: 630
80-85: 830
85-90: 820
90-95: 920
95-99: 810

Mastering Knights of the Round: 13,510 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Harpy's Aqualung should get your Limit gauge moving
again.

Anything Else- Yeah, you should go get the White Wind Enemy Skill from
Zemzelett. Plus, getting Big Guard from the Beach Plugs will be no problem now.
By the way, you need Manipulate to get these two Skills.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

15B. RED ALERT!!! CODE RED!!! ALARM!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon, Underwater Reactor Elevator Area (To activate these fights, you
must go to the alarm thingy and press the circle button. An alarm should go
off, and the screen should start appearing reddish now and then.)

Preparation- Save before you come here. You may have to get a feel for how much
damage these enemies can do to you. I usually wait until I have about 800+ HP
before I come here. I highly recommend that you have Aqualung and/or Beta for
these battles. Wear some Star Pendants or Silver Glasses. The Slaloms here can
cause Darkness and Poison to your guys. If you need Matra Magic, equip an Enemy
Skill Materia. Do you need any Smoke Bombs or W-Machine Guns? Have Steal on one
of your guys/gals/stuffed animals.

Training Rating: ***** This place is AWESOME (for now)!!!!

Monsters in this Area

Death Machine  HP-2500 MP-150 EXP-900 AP-80 Gil-1200 [Matra Magic]
Slalom         HP-1600 MP-30  EXP-700 AP-70 Gil-1500

Monster Groups

3x Slalom     EXP-2100 AP-210 Gil-4500
2x Slalom     EXP-1400 AP-140 Gil-3000
Death Machine EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-1200

Monster Info- Death Machines give the worst EXP, AP, and Gil here, but they
seem to be the hardest monster to beat. First off, sometimes they can attack 2
times in a row, which ticks me off. Their Matra Magic does around 200 points of
damage to the entire party, and their W-Machine Gun can do 400 damage
regularly. Slaloms are easier to deal with, especially if you have Aqualung or
Beta. Still, they like to Poison you. You can steal Smoke Bombs from Slaloms,
and W-Machine Guns from Death Machines.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 900-2100
AP Range: 80-210
Gil Range: 1200-4500

EXP Average: 1467
AP Average: 143
Gil Average: 2900

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 80
60-65: 100
65-70: 110
70-75: 130
75-80: 150
80-85: 200
85-90: 200
90-95: 220
95-99: 200

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,500 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Death Machine can deal large amounts of damage to
lower-level players, so the gauge should be full many a time. Just keep in mind
that the Death Machine can attack twice in a row sometimes.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

16A. OF STONE STARES AND GRAND PUNCHES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gongaga Area, Grasses

Preparation- If you ever want to go back here, equip Contain-Added Effect in
your Armor when you get those two Materia.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Gagighandi  HP-480 MP-55 EXP-173 AP-18 Gil-220
Grand Horn  HP-460 MP-43 EXP-180 AP-15 Gil-240

Monster Groups

3x Gagighandi  EXP-519 AP-54 Gil-660
2x Grand Horn  EXP-360 AP-30 Gil-480
2x Gagighandi  EXP-346 AP-36 Gil-440
Grand Horn     EXP-180 AP-15 Gil-240

Monster Info- Gagighandis love to use Stone Stare, a pathetic magical strike
that Slow-Numbs one character.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 180-519
AP Range: 15-54
Gil Range: 240-660

EXP Average: 351
AP Average: 34
Gil Average: 455

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  5
10-15: 15
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 140
40-45: 190
45-50: 230
50-55: 290
55-60: 340
60-65: 430
65-70: 480
70-75: 550
75-80: 630
80-85: 830
85-90: 830
90-95: 930
95-99: 820

Mastering Knights of the Round: 14,710 battles

Limit Training

Level X-2 Opportunity- Manipulate a Grand Horn, then have it use Grand Punch on
you. Sufficient.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

16B. TOUCH ME, I DARE YOU.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gongaga Area, Forests

Preparation- Wear some White Capes to protect yourself from Touch Me's Frog Jab
and Frog Song. Slow-Numb protection is optional, but not recommended. Enemy
Skill should be allocated on one of your characters if you want Frog Song.

Training Rating: *** or **** It all depends on the Mystery Ninja's level.

Monsters in this Area

Touch Me   HP-300 MP-74 EXP-170 AP-23 Gil-180 [Frog Song]
Gagighandi HP-480 MP-55 EXP-173 AP-18 Gil-220

Mystery Ninja (Stats are dependent on Cloud's level) [Special Enemy]

Monster Groups

6x Touch Me              EXP-1020 AP-138 Gil-1080
3x Gagighandi            EXP-519  AP-54  Gil-660
2x Touch Me + Gagighandi EXP-513  AP-64  Gil-580
2x Gagighandi            EXP-346  AP-36  Gil-440

Mystery Ninja           (Stats dependent on Cloud's level)

Monster Info- Touch Me's love to turn you into Frogs. They love it so much,
they sometimes Frog Jab you back to normal. Wait a little while, and the frogs
will start to use Frog Song, an Enemy Skill that casts [Toad] and [Sleepel] at
the same time (cheaper MP cost than casting those spells individually).
Gagighandis always seem to start the battle with Stone Stare, an attack that
Slow-Numbs one character.

(For information on the Mystery Ninja, use the Ctrl+F feature and look up the
symbol $)

Note: For all the Averages and Ranges, the Mystery Ninja will be completely
ignored due to her varying levels.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 346-1020
AP Range: 36-138
Gil Range: 440-1080

EXP Average: 600
AP Average: 73
Gil Average: 690

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 80
40-45: 110
45-50: 140
50-55: 170
55-60: 200
60-65: 250
65-70: 280
70-75: 320
75-80: 370
80-85: 490
85-90: 490
90-95: 540
95-99: 480

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,850 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

16C. GRANGALANS IN GONGAGA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gongaga Area, Beaches

Preparation- There are Grangalans here, so you can put your characters in the
back row if you want to split those Egg monsters up more easily. Sadly, that
may hinder your performance against the Beach Plugs. Have Manipulate and Enemy
Skill ready if you want to get Big Guard, the ultimate defensive Enemy Skill in
my opinion.

Training Rating: * This place is exactly the same as Corel's coast. I sense
some laziness regarding several beaches' uniqueness.

Monsters in this Area

Grangalan         HP-550 MP-60  EXP-88 AP-10 Gil-220 (Level 16)
Grangalan Jr.     HP-330 MP-40  EXP-77 AP-8  Gil-110 [Special Monster]
Grangalan Jr. Jr. HP-110 MP-20  EXP-66 AP-6  Gil-55  [Special Monster]
Beach Plug        HP-200 MP-100 EXP-95 AP-10 Gil-155 (Level 16) [Big Guard]

Monster Groups

4x Beach Plug                                     EXP-380 AP-40 Gil-620
Grangalan + Grangalan Jr. + 3x Grangalan Jr. Jr.  EXP-363 AP-36 Gil-495
3x Beach Plug                                     EXP-285 AP-30 Gil-465

Monster Info- After taking about three hits (damaged or cured), a Grangalan
will release a Grangalan Jr. After taking about two hits (damaged or cured),
the Grangalan Jr. will release three Grangalan Jr. Jrs. If you kill the
Grangalan at any time, the battle will end (giving you EXP, AP, and Gil only
from the monsters you killed). Beach Plugs have the Enemy Skill Big Guard, but
you can only get it by manipulating one.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 285-380 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 30-40
Gil Range: 465-620

EXP Average: 343
AP Average: 35
Gil Average: 527

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  6
10-15: 20
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 150
40-45: 190
45-50: 240
50-55: 290
55-60: 350
60-65: 440
65-70: 490
70-75: 570
75-80: 650
80-85: 850
85-90: 850
90-95: 950
95-99: 840

Mastering Knights of the Round: 14,290 battles

NOTE: All of the above data tables assume that you will be splitting and
killing every possible Grangalan in the Grangalan battles.

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- If you make the Grangalans split every time, you'll get
3-5 kills per battle. That's pretty good.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

17A. IN THE JUNGLE, THE MIGHTY JUNGLE (PART I)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gongaga, Jungle (If you access this place right away, you have to be
prepared to fight Reno and Rude of the Turks.) This specific area applies only
to the screen that you first enter into from the World Map.

Preparation- Use Time-Added Effect in your Armor when you get those Materia.
For now, equip White Capes. Wearing Star Pendants and Headbands will provide a
certain degree of safety from the Flower Prong, but it's pretty much
unnecessary. Fire/Earth-Elemental in your Weapon is a good combo to use as
well. If you don't have Frog Song, then equip an Enemy Skill Materia, too.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Kimara Bug   HP-700 MP-25 EXP-190 AP-19 Gil-278
Touch Me     HP-300 MP-74 EXP-170 AP-23 Gil-180 [Frog Song]

Flower Prong HP-550 MP-68 (This monster has three forms, each possessing the
same HP, MP, and weakness values. Here is the EXP, AP, and Gil for each form.)

First Form   HP-550 MP-68 EXP-240 AP-24 Gil-400
Second Form  HP-550 MP-68 EXP-220 AP-22 Gil-350
Third Form   HP-550 MP-68 EXP-200 AP-20 Gil-300

Monster Groups

2x Kimara Bug  EXP-380 AP-38 Gil-556
Flower Prong   EXP-220 AP-22 Gil-350 (See Note at bottom)
Kimara Bug     EXP-190 AP-19 Gil-278
Touch Me       EXP-170 AP-23 Gil-180

Note: I will be using the Second Form's info for the Ranges and Averages. It
should work out, seeing as it's the average of all three forms.

Monster Info- Kimara Bugs use the Stop Web, which uses [Stop] on one character.
Touch Mes love to Frog Jab and Frog Song their opponents, so pick up the Enemy
Skill he uses. Flower Prongs are weak against Fire and Earth, but they can
change into more powerful forms when weakened. Their HP and MP numbers refill
after their transformation, so be cautious. Kimara Bugs carry Spider Webs, a
useful Item that Slows all opponents. They are good for Lowest-Level Games
(especially against Demon's Gate).


Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 170-380
AP Range: 19-38
Gil Range: 180-556

EXP Average: 240
AP Average: 26
Gil Average: 341

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  8
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 80
25-30: 110
30-35: 160
35-40: 210
40-45: 270
45-50: 340
50-55: 420
55-60: 500
60-65: 630
65-70: 700
70-75: 810
75-80: 930
80-85: 1220
85-90: 1210
90-95: 1360
95-99: 1200

Mastering Knights of the Round: 19,230 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Flower Prong's Third Form has some incredibly
powerful attacks. First off, its W-Laser attack blasts off 93-94% of your HP,
instantly putting you in [Critical]. Its Pollen attack doesn't do that much
damage, but it can wipe out the character that was just W-Lasered. Finally, its
Bio2 spell does around 450 damage, which can also wipe out a weakened
character.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

17B. IN THE JUNGLE, THE MIGHTY JUNGLE (PART II)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gongaga, Jungle (This only applies to the screen where the 'Deathblow'
Mateira can be found. It's also the screen with the path that leads to Gongaga
Village.)

Preparation- Use Time-Added Effect in your Armor when you get those Materia.
For now, equip White Capes. If you don't have Frog Song, then equip an Enemy
Skill Materia, too.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Kimara Bug   HP-700 MP-25 EXP-190 AP-19 Gil-278
Touch Me     HP-300 MP-74 EXP-170 AP-23 Gil-180 [Frog Song]

Monster Groups

2x Kimara Bug  EXP-380 AP-38 Gil-556
2x Touch Me    EXP-340 AP-46 Gil-360
Kimara Bug     EXP-190 AP-19 Gil-278
Touch Me       EXP-170 AP-23 Gil-180

Monster Info- Touch Me uses the Enemy Skill Frog Song and changes you into a
Frog a lot. Kimara Bugs can instantly Stop you with Stop Web. Kimara Bugs carry
Spider Webs, a useful Item that Slows all opponents. They are good for Lowest-
Level Games (especially against Demon's Gate).

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 170-380
AP Range: 19-46
Gil Range: 180-556

EXP Average: 270
AP Average: 32
Gil Average: 344

Battle Average:

1-5:   2
5-10:  7
10-15: 20
15-20: 40
20-25: 70
25-30: 100
30-35: 140
35-40: 190
40-45: 240
45-50: 300
50-55: 370
55-60: 450
60-65: 560
65-70: 620
70-75: 720
75-80: 820
80-85: 1080
85-90: 1080
90-95: 1210
95-99: 1060

Mastering Knights of the Round: 15,630 battles

Anything Else- If you plan to train in Gongaga territory, then buy some more
White Capes in Gongaga Village. Also, buy some Fury Rings. They put you in
Berserk whenever you're in battle, which is very good for training in certain
areas. It lets you rest your tired button-mashing hands for a bit.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

17C. RHINO-TANKS GALORE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gongaga, Meltdown Reactor

Preparation- Once you get Morph, you can start changing Heavy Tanks into Power
Sources. Wonderful.

Training Rating: ** Gil-building is pretty darn good here.

Monsters in this Area

Heavy Tank  HP-1600 MP-25 EXP-340 AP-45 Gil-1300

Monster Groups

Heavy Tank  EXP-340 AP-45 Gil-1300

Monster Info- Heavy Tanks can be Morphed into Power Sources, but Gravity does
not work on it. =(

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 340
AP Range: 45
Gil Range: 1300

EXP Average: 340
AP Average: 45
Gil Average: 1300

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  6
10-15: 20
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 150
40-45: 190
45-50: 240
50-55: 290
55-60: 350
60-65: 440
65-70: 500
70-75: 570
75-80: 650
80-85: 860
85-90: 860
90-95: 960
95-99: 840

Mastering Knights of the Round: 11,110 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18A. THE LAND OF PERPETUAL SUNDOWN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cosmo Area, Dirt (Sundown)

Preparation- Equip an Ice-Elemental combo in your Weapon. 75% of the enemies
here are affected by Lv.4 Suicide, so you can deal some critical damage to most
of them. Wear some Silver Glasses to protect yourself from Desert Sahagin's
Sandgun.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Desert Sahagin  HP-580  MP-0  EXP-230 AP-21 Gil-300 (Level 20)
Griffin         HP-760  MP-40 EXP-260 AP-25 Gil-350
Skeeskee        HP-540  MP-0  EXP-222 AP-22 Gil-222 (Level 20)
Golem           HP-1000 MP-0  EXP-300 AP-22 Gil-500 (Level 24)

Monster Groups

Griffin + 2x Skeeskee  EXP-704 AP-69 Gil-794
3x Desert Sahagin      EXP-690 AP-63 Gil-900
3x Skeeskee            EXP-666 AP-66 Gil-666 (What the----?!)
2x Desert Sahagin      EXP-460 AP-42 Gil-600
Golem                  EXP-300 AP-22 Gil-500
Griffin                EXP-260 AP-25 Gil-350

Monster Info- Golems carry Turbo Ether, very valuable at this point. Desert
Sahagin is weak against Ice and Punch (for more details on Punch, check out
Terence's Battle Mechanics FAQ). Watch out for Griffin's Peacock attack! It
drains MP from ALL your characters, and it is extremely annoying for MP
Conservatives like me. Desert Sahagin can sometimes retreat into its shell
before being attacked, reducing damage to 1.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 260-704
AP Range: 22-69
Gil Range: 350-900

EXP Average: 513
AP Average: 48
Gil Average: 635

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  4
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 40
25-30: 50
30-35: 80
35-40: 100
40-45: 130
45-50: 160
50-55: 200
55-60: 230
60-65: 290
65-70: 330
70-75: 380
75-80: 430
80-85: 570
85-90: 570
90-95: 640
95-99: 560

Mastering Knights of the Round: 10,420 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- When you let a Golem get close to you, it will start
dealing nearly 200 damage a blow. A Skeeskee's Rage Bomber does 200 damage and
Furies you, making the gauge go up even quicker. I suggest you just Manipulate
a Skeeskee and have it Rage Bomber your party.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18B. COSMO DIRT, CARESSED BY THE SUN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cosmo Area, Dirt (Sunlight)

Preparation- If you want to be offensive, equip Ice-Elemental in your Weapon.
If you are a defensive dude, equip Earth-Elemental in your Armor. If you're in
need of Vagyrisk Claws, you can try your luck by equipping Steal and praying
that you can actually get one from the Bagrisks. Are you afraid of the Desert
Sahagin's Sandgun? Equip some Silver Glasses, then.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Griffin         HP-760 MP-40 EXP-260 AP-25 Gil-350
Bagrisk         HP-400 MP-50 EXP-240 AP-30 Gil-275
Desert Sahagin  HP-580 MP-0  EXP-230 AP-21 Gil-300 (Level 20)

Monster Groups

3x Bagrisk        EXP-720 AP-90 Gil-825
2x Desert Sahagin EXP-460 AP-42 Gil-600
Griffin           EXP-260 AP-25 Gil-350

Monster Info- Desert Sahagins can blind you with Sandgun, but they are weak
against Cold and Punch. Griffins can use Peacock to drain your MP away. Desert
Sahagins can withdraw into their shell just before an attack hits, reducing
physical damage to 1. Bagrisks like to all sorts of nasty petrification-related
things to you, so be warned and weary. Most of the time, you will steal a Soft
from a Bagrisk. Rarely, however, you can steal a Vagyrisk Claw in its place. I
only successfully stole one Vagyrisk Claw thus far.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 260-720
AP Range: 25-90
Gil Range: 350-825

EXP Average: 480
AP Average: 52
Gil Average: 590

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  4
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 40
25-30: 60
30-35: 80
35-40: 110
40-45: 140
45-50: 170
50-55: 210
55-60: 250
60-65: 320
65-70: 350
70-75: 410
75-80: 460
80-85: 610
85-90: 610
90-95: 680
95-99: 600

Mastering Knights of the Round: 9,620 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Bagrisks sometimes use Quake 2, which causes around 400
damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18C. THE RETURN OF THE GRAND HORN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cosmo Area, Grasses

Preparation- If you ever want to go back here, equip Contain-Added Effect in
your Armor when you get those two Materia.

Training Rating: * This place is the same as Gongaga's Grasses.

Monsters in this Area

Gagighandi  HP-480 MP-55 EXP-173 AP-18 Gil-220
Grand Horn  HP-460 MP-43 EXP-180 AP-15 Gil-240

Monster Groups

3x Gagighandi  EXP-519 AP-54 Gil-660
2x Grand Horn  EXP-360 AP-30 Gil-480
2x Gagighandi  EXP-346 AP-36 Gil-440
Grand Horn     EXP-180 AP-15 Gil-240

Monster Info- Gagighandis love to use Stone Stare, a pathetic magical strike
that Slow-Numbs one character.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 180-519
AP Range: 15-54
Gil Range: 240-660

EXP Average: 351
AP Average: 34
Gil Average: 455

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  5
10-15: 15
15-20: 30
20-25: 50
25-30: 80
30-35: 110
35-40: 140
40-45: 190
45-50: 230
50-55: 290
55-60: 340
60-65: 430
65-70: 480
70-75: 550
75-80: 630
80-85: 830
85-90: 830
90-95: 930
95-99: 820

Mastering Knights of the Round: 14,710 battles

Limit Training

Level X-2 Opportunity- Manipulate a Grand Horn, then have it use Grand Punch on
you. Yay.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18D. "THEY CALL IT CROWN LANCE, BUT I DON'T SEE A CROWN OR A LANCE." -FOOL

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cosmo Area, Beaches

Preparation- Petrify-Protection is highly recommended when you obtain such
defensive capabilities. Fire-Elemental in your Weapon should do the trick for
attacking the Crown Lances. Headbands should be worn to prevent an early nap-
time for you party members. Lightning-Elemental in your Armor will cut down the
damage from Bolt.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Crown Lance  HP-440 MP-70 EXP-225 AP-23 Gil-400

Monster Groups

3x Crown Lance  EXP-675 AP-69 Gil-1200
2x Crown Lance  EXP-450 AP-46 Gil-800
Crown Lance     EXP-225 AP-23 Gil-400

Monster Info- Crown Lances counterattack by Petrifying the attacker. Not good.
Also, they use Sleepel to lull your friends, then they zap our guys with Bolt
while they're asleep.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 225-675
AP Range: 23-69
Gil Range: 400-1200

EXP Average: 450
AP Average: 46
Gil Average: 800

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  4
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 40
25-30: 60
30-35: 90
35-40: 110
40-45: 150
45-50: 180
50-55: 220
55-60: 270
60-65: 340
65-70: 370
70-75: 430
75-80: 490
80-85: 650
85-90: 650
90-95: 720
95-99: 640

Mastering Knights of the Round: 10,870 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19A. SNEAKY STEPS AND OLD HEGS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cave of the Gi, Entrance Area ('Funny', 'Strange',  and 'Stranged-Shaped'
Rocks can be found here.)

Preparation- You can get a new Enemy Skill here, so equip Enemy Skill Materia.
Use Ice-Elemental in your Weapon and Poison-Added Effect in your Armor (you can
get Added Effect in the Cave of the Gi). Star Pendants provide adequate
protection from the Heg's nasty bite.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Sneaky Step  HP-600 MP-65 EXP-270 AP-24 Gil-330 [Death Sentence]
Heg          HP-400 MP-0  EXP-250 AP-20 Gil-240

Monster Groups

4x Heg               EXP-1000 AP-80 Gil-960
2x Heg + Sneaky Step EXP-770  AP-64 Gil-810
Sneaky Step          EXP-270  AP-24 Gil-330

Monster Info- Hegs are weak against Cold. They like to Poison and Paralyze you,
so be warned and prepared. Sneaky Steps can cast Death Sentence on you, but
it's easier just to Manipulate them and manually make it do its job.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 270-1000
AP Range: 24-80
Gil Range: 330-960

EXP Average: 680
AP Average: 56
Gil Average: 700

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 70
40-45: 100
45-50: 120
50-55: 150
55-60: 180
60-65: 220
65-70: 250
70-75: 290
75-80: 330
80-85: 430
85-90: 430
90-95: 480
95-99: 420

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,930 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19B. THE GUT OF GI'S CAVE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cave of the Gi, Center Area (Black M-Phone is found here.)

Preparation- You can get Death Sentence here, so equip Enemy Skill Materia. Use
Ice-Elemental in your Weapon and Poison-Added Effect in your Armor (you can get
Added Effect in this cave). Star Pendants provide adequate protection from the
Heg's nasty bite.

Training Rating: *** This is the best area to battle in the Cave of the Gi.

Monsters in this Area

Sneaky Step  HP-600 MP-65 EXP-270 AP-24 Gil-330 [Death Sentence]
Heg          HP-400 MP-0  EXP-250 AP-20 Gil-240

Monster Groups

5x Heg         EXP-1250 AP-100 Gil-1200
3x Sneaky Step EXP-810  AP-72  Gil-990
2x Sneaky Step EXP-540  AP-48  Gil-660

Monster Info- Hegs are weak against Cold. They like to Poison and Paralyze you,
so be warned and prepared. Sneaky Steps can cast Death Sentence on you, but
it's easier just to Manipulate them and manually make it do its job.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 540-1250
AP Range: 48-100
Gil Range: 660-1200

EXP Average: 867
AP Average: 73
Gil Average: 950

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 60
40-45: 80
45-50: 90
50-55: 120
55-60: 140
60-65: 170
65-70: 190
70-75: 220
75-80: 260
80-85: 340
85-90: 340
90-95: 380
95-99: 330

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,850 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- You can fight 2-5 enemies here. It isn't the best spot,
so I still wouldn't bother getting a lot of kills done here.

Anything Else- Pick up the Added Effect Materia, which can be found by going
south on a path that leads back to a different spot on the previous screen. It
can be very useful depending on the situation.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19C. SPIDERS CAN GROW PRETTY DARN BIG HERE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cave of the Gi, Spider Web Area

Preparation- Put Ice/Fire-Elemental in your Weapon, and Poison-Added Effect in
your Armor. Give Star Pendants or a Fairy Ring (found in this screen) to non-
Poison protected characters. You are forced to fights two Stingers in this
zone, so have Transform Materia equipped. You can shrink the Stingers into tiny
spideys. If you didn't get Death Sentence yet, then equip Enemy Skill now. If
you can squeeze a Cure into your slots, go for it.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Sneaky Step  HP-600 MP-65 EXP-270 AP-24 Gil-330 [Death Sentence]
Heg          HP-400 MP-0  EXP-250 AP-20 Gil-240
Gi Spector   HP-450 MP-88 EXP-260 AP-20 Gil-150 [Death Sentence]

Monster Groups

5x Heg               EXP-1250 AP-100 Gil-1200
3x Heg + Sneaky Step EXP-1020 AP-84  Gil-1050
2x Heg + Sneaky Step EXP-770  AP-64  Gil-810
2x Sneaky Step       EXP-540  AP-48  Gil-660
Gi Spector           EXP-260  AP-20  Gil-150

Monster Info- Hegs are weak against Cold. They like to Poison and Paralyze you,
so be warned and prepared. Sneaky Steps and Gi Spectors can cast Death Sentence
on you. Gi Spectors sometimes drop Smoke Bombs, which allow for instant escape
in combat. This is quite useful when you're in a jam in the Battle Arena, as
all your BP will remain in tact. Gi Spectors take heavy damage from Cure and
Fire, so don't hesitate to use such attacks on them.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 260-1250
AP Range: 20-100
Gil Range: 150-1200

EXP Average: 768
AP Average: 63
Gil Average: 774

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 50
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 110
50-55: 130
55-60: 160
60-65: 200
65-70: 220
70-75: 250
75-80: 290
80-85: 380
85-90: 380
90-95: 420
95-99: 370

Mastering Knights of the Round: 7,940 battles

Anything Else- In case you didn't know, you can just throw an X-Potion or an
Elixir to instantly kill the Boss up ahead.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

20A. DANCES WITH WOLVES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Nibel Area, Grasses

Preparation- Gravity-Elemental in your Armor is a great defense against
Valron's devastating Demi3 spell.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Valron      HP-950 MP-80 EXP-300 AP-30 Gil-300 (Level 24)
Nibel Wolf  HP-700 MP-0  EXP-265 AP-24 Gil-260

Monster Groups

2x Nibel Wolf + Valron  EXP-830 AP-78 Gil-820
2x Nibel Wolf           EXP-530 AP-48 Gil-520
Valron                  EXP-300 AP-30 Gil-300

Monster Info- Nibel Wolves can use a move called Howling, which brings more
Nibel Wolves into battle. I have not personally witnessed this in my last game,
but I have seen it before. I'm not sure if EXP, AP, and Gil values accumulate.
I'm pretty sure that they do, and I'll get around to finding out the truth
someday.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 300-830
AP Range: 30-78
Gil Range: 300-820

EXP Average: 553
AP Average: 52
Gil Average: 547

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  4
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 50
30-35: 70
35-40: 90
40-45: 120
45-50: 150
50-55: 180
55-60: 220
60-65: 270
65-70: 300
70-75: 350
75-80: 400
80-85: 530
85-90: 530
90-95: 590
95-99: 520

Mastering Knights of the Round: 9,620 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Valron has a powerful move called the Dive Kick. It does
damage equal to 25% of your character's MAX HP, not Current HP. This means that
if you have a character with only 24% of his HP left, Valron's Dive Kick will
wipe him out (he did 2499 damage to me once, killing Cloud). You can either
wait for Valron to use Demi3 on one of your guys, or Manipulate it and have it
Dive Kick you to fill that gauge up fast.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

20B. SAME OLD CROWN LANCES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Nibel Area, Beaches

Preparation- Petrify-Protection is highly recommended when you obtain such
defensive capabilities. Fire-Elemental in your Weapon should do the trick for
attacking the Crown Lances. Headbands should be worn to prevent an early nap-
time for you party members. Lightning-Elemental in your Armor will cut down the
damage from Bolt.

Training Rating: * This is EXACTLY the same as Cosmo Beaches.

Monsters in this Area

Crown Lance  HP-440 MP-70 EXP-225 AP-23 Gil-400

Monster Groups

3x Crown Lance  EXP-675 AP-69 Gil-1200
2x Crown Lance  EXP-450 AP-46 Gil-800
Crown Lance     EXP-225 AP-23 Gil-400

Monster Info- Crown Lances counterattack by Petrifying the attacker. Not good.
Also, they use Sleepel to lull your friends, then they zap our heroes with Bolt
while they're asleep.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 225-675
AP Range: 23-69
Gil Range: 400-1200

EXP Average: 450
AP Average: 46
Gil Average: 800

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  4
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 40
25-30: 60
30-35: 90
35-40: 110
40-45: 150
45-50: 180
50-55: 220
55-60: 270
60-65: 340
65-70: 370
70-75: 430
75-80: 490
80-85: 650
85-90: 650
90-95: 720
95-99: 640

Mastering Knights of the Round: 10,870 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

21A. G-G-G-G-G-G-GHOST!!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra Mansion, First Floor

Preparation- Gravity-Elemental in a Weapon and Mystify/Seal-Added Effect in an
Armor should keep at least one character strong.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Ghirofelgo  HP-1600 MP-0  EXP-380 AP-44 Gil-300
Dorky Face  HP-520  MP-80 EXP-300 AP-35 Gil-202

Monster Groups

4x Dorky Face  EXP-1200 AP-140 Gil-808
3x Dorky Face  EXP-900  AP-105 Gil-606
Ghirofelgo     EXP-380  AP-44  Gil-300

Monster Info- Dorky Face likes to Silence one character with Curses, and
Confuse the whole party with Funny Breath. These guys are dangerous if you have
zero protection against any of those Status Ailments. Ghirofelgo is weak
against Gravity, so one Laser or Demi2 should automatically kill it (or bring
its HP down to 1 if his current HP is an odd number).

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 380-1200
AP Range: 44-140
Gil Range: 300-808

EXP Average: 827
AP Average: 96
Gil Average: 571

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 50
35-40: 60
40-45: 80
45-50: 100
50-55: 120
55-60: 150
60-65: 180
65-70: 200
70-75: 240
75-80: 270
80-85: 350
85-90: 350
90-95: 390
95-99: 350

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,210 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

21B. LOST NUMBER IS IN HIS SLUMBER

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra Mansion, Second Floor

Preparation- You can learn a new Enemy Skill here (Psst! That means you should
equip Enemy Skill). You can also Steal some Turbo Ether, which is extremely
useful for the entire game. Once again, equip Mystify/Seal-Added Effect in your
Armor to protect yourself from Dorky Face. Gravity-Elemental in your Weapon
will make Ghirofelgo cry.

Training Rating: *** This is the best place to level up in the Shinra Mansion.
If you feel that the enemies in Mt. Nibel are just too much for you, then go
back and fight for a while here.

Monsters in this Area

Dorky Face  HP-520  MP-80  EXP-300 AP-35 Gil-202
Jersey      HP-500  MP-100 EXP-320 AP-30 Gil-384 [???]
Mirage      HP-570  MP-0   EXP-290 AP-22 Gil-280 (Level 24)
Ghirofelgo  HP-1600 MP-0   EXP-380 AP-44 Gil-300

Monster Groups

4x Dorky Face          EXP-1200 AP-140 Gil-808
3x Jersey              EXP-960  AP-90  Gil-1152
2x Mirage + Jersey     EXP-900  AP-74  Gil-944
2x Mirage + Dorky Face EXP-880  AP-79  Gil-762
Ghirofelgo             EXP-380  AP-44  Gil-300

Monster Info- Jerseys have two 'modes'. In one mode, they are impervious to
Magic. In the other mode, they are invulnerable to physical attacks. In the
mode that they start off in battle (invulnerable to Magic mode), they use the
Enemy Skill ???. The only way to get this skill is to simply wait for it to use
it on you. The Jerseys also carry Turbo Ether, the ultimate Ether. Dorky Faces
can Silence and Confuse you, so be ready for it. Mirages have a built-in
Reflect status on them that's un-DeSpell-able. So, DO NOT USE LV.4 SUICIDE even
though they're Level 24. On some occasions, they will drop an Item called the
Mirror, which casts [Reflect] on all allies. It is extremely useful at this
point in the game, but it is also pretty rare. Ghirofelgo is vulnerable to
Gravity, so hit him with a Demi2 or Laser to blast him out of his stupid little
guillotine/anchor thingy.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 380-1200
AP Range: 44-140
Gil Range: 300-1152

EXP Average: 864
AP Average: 85
Gil Average: 793

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 60
40-45: 80
45-50: 90
50-55: 120
55-60: 140
60-65: 180
65-70: 190
70-75: 230
75-80: 260
80-85: 340
85-90: 340
90-95: 380
95-99: 330

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,880 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Umm, you can reduce a Jersey's HP low enough so that the
??? Enemy Skill it casts does damage equal to how much HP it lost (up to 499).
Other than that, nada.

Alternatively, if you decide to fight Lost Number, you can let him pound you to
bits in any one of his forms (Hint: his purple form does the most damage).





------------------------------------------------------------------------------

21C. OH MY GOSH! HIDDEN STEPS!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra Mansion, Hidden Steps

Preparation- If you didn't learn ??? yet, you can learn it now. You can also
Steal some Turbo Ether, which is extremely useful for the entire game. Once
again, equip Mystify/Seal-Added Effect in your Armor to protect yourself from
Dorky Face. Gravity-Elemental in your Weapon will make Ghirofelgo cry. If you
want the Black Bats to suffer instead, put Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon
(or, later on, Alexander-Elemental in your Weapon).

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Dorky Face  HP-520  MP-80  EXP-300 AP-35 Gil-202
Jersey      HP-500  MP-100 EXP-320 AP-30 Gil-384 [???]
Mirage      HP-570  MP-0   EXP-290 AP-22 Gil-280 (Level 24)
Ghirofelgo  HP-1600 MP-0   EXP-380 AP-44 Gil-300
Black Bat   HP-550  MP-0   EXP-270 AP-24 Gil-80

Monster Groups

2x Mirage + Jersey        EXP-900 AP-74 Gil-944
2x Dorky Face + Mirage    EXP-890 AP-92 Gil-684
2x Dorky Face + Black Bat EXP-870 AP-94 Gil-484
3x Black Bat              EXP-810 AP-72 Gil-240
Ghirofelgo                EXP-380 AP-44 Gil-300

Monster Info- Jerseys have two 'modes'. In one mode, they are impervious to
Magic. In the other mode, they are invulnerable to physical attacks. In the
mode that they start off in battle (invulnerable to Magic mode), they use the
Enemy Skill ???. The only way to get this skill is to simply wait for it to use
it on you. The Jerseys also carry Turbo Ether, the ultimate Ether. Dorky Faces
can Silence and Confuse you, so be ready for it. Mirages have a built-in
Reflect status on them that's un-DeSpell-able. So, DO NOT USE LV.4 SUICIDE even
though they're Level 24. On some occasions, they will drop an Item called the
Mirror, which casts [Reflect] on all allies. It is extremely useful at this
point in the game, but it is also extremely rare. Ghirofelgo is vulnerable to
Gravity, so hit him with a Demi2 or Laser to blast him out of his stupid little
guillotine/anchor thingy. Black Bats are weak against both Holy and Wind, plus
they drop Vampire Fangs sometimes (same effect as Drain).

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 380-900
AP Range: 44-94
Gil Range: 240-944

EXP Average: 770
AP Average: 75
Gil Average: 530

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 50
35-40: 70
40-45: 80
45-50: 110
50-55: 130
55-60: 160
60-65: 200
65-70: 220
70-75: 250
75-80: 290
80-85: 380
85-90: 380
90-95: 420
95-99: 370

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,666 battles (I decided not to round that
number. Can you guess why? Mwahuahahahahahahahahahaha!!!!)

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Umm, you can reduce a Jersey's HP low enough so that the
??? Enemy Skill it casts does damage equal to how much HP it lost (up to 499).
That's pretty much it for Limit Training on the stairway.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

21D. THE REAL YING-YANG WOULD BE DISPLEASED

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra Mansion, Basement

Preparation- Have Lv.4 Suicide equipped. It will make taking out Ying/Yang that
much easier (and shorter). Choco/Mog-Elemental or Alexander-Elemental (you get
Alexander much later on) in your Weapon will help you to kill the Black Bats.
Yang uses both Ice2 and Bolt2, so you may want to put Ice/Bolt-Elemental in
your Armor if necessary. Oh yes, if you were me, you'd be prepared to RUN
whenever you see a Ying/Yang.

Training Rating: ** It's not worth putting up with all the Ying/Yangs.

Monsters in this Area

Ying (connected to Yang)  HP-1200 MP-0   EXP-350 AP-35 Gil-400 (Level 24)
Yang (connected to Ying)  HP-1200 MP-220 EXP-350 AP-35 Gil-400 (Level 24)
Black Bat                 HP-550  MP-0   EXP-270 AP-24 Gil-80

Note: I'm not 100% sure about Ying and Yang's EXP, AP, and Gil values because
they never appear solo. I do know that as a group, they give out 700 EXP, 70
AP, and 800 Gil.

Monster Groups

4x Black Bat  EXP-1080 AP-96 Gil-320
3x Black Bat  EXP-810  AP-72 Gil-240
Ying + Yang   EXP-700  AP-70 Gil-800
2x Black Bat  EXP-540  AP-48 Gil-160

Monster Info- Black Bats are weak against Holy and Wind, plus they sometimes
drop Vampire Fangs. Ying and Yang have huge lag times for some of their
attacks, so it's best just to run away from them. Yang is resistant to Magic,
and Ying is resistant to physical attacks. They like to spend over a minute
expressing their feelings, and that's what I hate most about them. Yang
explodes on occasion, so you have to be ready for that.

Encounter Rate: *** This is just sad.

EXP Range: 540-1080
AP Range: 48-96
Gil Range: 160-800

EXP Average: 783
AP Average: 72
Gil Average: 380

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 50
35-40: 60
40-45: 80
45-50: 100
50-55: 130
55-60: 150
60-65: 190
65-70: 220
70-75: 250
75-80: 280
80-85: 370
85-90: 370
90-95: 420
95-99: 370

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,940 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Yang's spells pack a nice punch, but he takes soooooo
long to cast one.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

22A. "THE COLD AIR OF THE MOUNTAINS OF NIBEL. IT WAS NO DIFFERENT." -CLOUD

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Nibel, Entrance and Exit Areas

Preparation- Lv.4 Suicide will weaken Kyuvilduns and shrink them. Fire-
Elemental or Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon will work well here. If you
need Ether, you can steal some from Sonic Speeds.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Sonic Speed  HP-750 MP-50 EXP-370 AP-28 Gil-330
Kyuvilduns   HP-800 MP-0  EXP-340 AP-34 Gil-368 (Level 24)

Monster Groups

Sonic Speed + 2x Kyuvilduns  EXP-1050 AP-96  Gil-1066
3x Kyuvilduns                EXP-1020 AP-102 Gil-1104
2x Sonic Speed               EXP-740  AP-56  Gil-660
2x Kyuvilduns                EXP-680  AP-68  Gil-736

Monster Info- Kyuvilduns is vulnerable to Lv.4 Suicide and Fire spells. Sonic
Speed is weak against Wind, and it carries Ether.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 680-1050
AP Range: 56-102
Gil Range: 660-1104

EXP Average: 873
AP Average: 81
Gil Average: 892

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 60
40-45: 70
45-50: 90
50-55: 110
55-60: 140
60-65: 170
65-70: 190
70-75: 220
75-80: 250
80-85: 330
85-90: 330
90-95: 370
95-99: 330

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,170 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Kyuvilduns' Lay Flat does around 200 damage. The damage
is okay, and it builds up pretty quickly.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

22B. THIS BRIDGE HAS REACHED ITS VERTICAL LIMIT

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Nibel, Bridge

Preparation- One of your characters should be outfitted with Long Range Materia
and Choco/Mog-Elemental in his/her Weapon. Give someone Steal if you want Ether
or some Bird Wings. Wear some Silver Glasses to prevent the Great Gale from
blinding you.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Sonic Speed  HP-750  MP-50 EXP-370 AP-28 Gil-330
Zuu          HP-1200 MP-40 EXP-450 AP-38 Gil-430

Monster Groups

3x Sonic Speed  EXP-1110 AP-84 Gil-990
2x Sonic Speed  EXP-740  AP-56 Gil-660
Zuu             EXP-450  AP-38 Gil-430

Monster Info- Sonic Speed is weak against Wind and carries Ether. Zuu can only
be hit by characters with Long Range Weapons or Materia equipped. They carry
Bird Wings, an Item that does fairly decent damage to all enemies.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 450-1110
AP Range: 38-84
Gil Range: 430-990

EXP Average: 767
AP Average: 59
Gil Average: 693

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 50
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 110
50-55: 130
55-60: 160
60-65: 200
65-70: 220
70-75: 250
75-80: 290
80-85: 380
85-90: 380
90-95: 420
95-99: 370

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,470 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

22C. "CAVES? INSIDE OF MOUNTAINS? PREPOSTEROUS!!!" -STUCK UP GENTLEMAN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Nibel, Mountain Caverns

Preparation- If you didn't get the Flamethrower Enemy Skill, you can get it
here. Have Fire-Elemental in your Armor, or equip a Fire Ring. You can steal a
good piece of armor in these caves, so have Steal allocated. Beta is a good
Enemy Skill to have by now, as you can destroy groups of Kyuvilduns with ease.
Wearing a Jem Ring (won from Boss here) can protect you from the Twin Brain's
Staredown spell/attack/move/special/whatever-you-want-to-call-it. Lv.4 Suicide
is EXCELLENT against Kyuvilduns and Dragons.

Training Rating: **** This place falls just shy of the Junon alarm battles.
Still, the enemies are easier to kill here.

Monsters in this Area

Kyuvilduns  HP-800  MP-0   EXP-340 AP-34  Gil-368  (Level 24)
Dragon      HP-3500 MP-250 EXP-900 AP-110 Gil-1400 (Level 32)
Twin Brain  HP-400  MP-20  EXP-340 AP-32  Gil-320

Monster Groups

5x Kyuvilduns                 EXP-1700 AP-170 Gil-1840
3x Kyuvilduns + 2x Twin Brain EXP-1700 AP-166 Gil-1744
3x Twin Brain                 EXP-1020 AP-96  Gil-960
Dragon                        EXP-900  AP-110 Gil-1400

Monster Info- Dragons use the Flamethrower Enemy Skill, and they carry Gold
Armlets. They absorb Fire, so don't use it against them. Kyuvilduns is weak
against Fire. Twin Brains carry Ether, and begin battles with Staredown
(Paralyzes one victim).

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 900-1700
AP Range: 96-170
Gil Range: 960-1840

EXP Average: 1330
AP Average: 136
Gil Average: 1486

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 220
85-90: 220
90-95: 250
95-99: 220

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,680 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Dragon's attacks deal fierce damage, and they only
target one character.

Alternatively, when you fight Materia Keeper, let it beat the stuffing out of
your characters during the battle.

Level X-1 Opportunity- Half of the fights here will have 5 enemies. This is a
really good spot to start getting 2-1 and 3-1 Limits.

Anything Else- When you fight the Materia Keeper, get the Enemy Skill Trine. It
is the only miss-able Enemy Skill by disc 3. It does great Lightning damage,
considering the cheap MP cost.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

22D. YUP, ANOTHER REACTOR

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mt. Nibel, Reactor Area (This zone includes the reactor stairway, the
area surrounding the reactor, and the path in the mountains that leads to the
reactor.)

Preparation- Once you get Morph, you should equip that here. Choco/Mog-
Elemental in your Weapon should be a priority. Long Range Materia is highly
recommended against the Zuu. You can Steal Bird Wings and Ether, too. Wear a
Jem Ring if you have one. Wear Silver Glasses so you won't be blinded by the
Zuu's Great Gale.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Zuu         HP-1200 MP-40 EXP-450 AP-38 Gil-430
Sonic Speed HP-750  MP-50 EXP-370 AP-28 Gil-330
Screamer    HP-800  MP-40 EXP-400 AP-33 Gil-400
Twin Brain  HP-400  MP-20 EXP-340 AP-32 Gil-320

Monster Groups

2x Screamer + Twin Brain    EXP-1140 AP-98 Gil-1120
3x Sonic Speed              EXP-1110 AP-84 Gil-990
2x Twin Brain + Sonic Speed EXP-1050 AP-92 Gil-970
3x Twin Brain               EXP-1020 AP-96 Gil-960
2x Screamer                 EXP-800  AP-66 Gil-800
Zuu                         EXP-450  AP-38 Gil-430

Monster Info- Sonic Speed carries Ether and is weak against Wind. Screamers can
be Morphed into Power Sources, which is a VERY good Item. Twin Brains use
Staredown, a move that Paralyzes one character. Zuu is weak against Wind, and
it carries Bird Wings.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 450-1140
AP Range: 38-98
Gil Range: 430-1120

EXP Average: 928
AP Average: 79
Gil Average: 878

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 6
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 50
40-45: 70
45-50: 90
50-55: 110
55-60: 130
60-65: 160
65-70: 180
70-75: 210
75-80: 240
80-85: 320
85-90: 310
90-95: 350
95-99: 310

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,330  battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

23A. THE BELATED FORESTS OF NIBEL

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Nibel Area, Forests

Preparation- Battery Caps can give you [Darkness], so put on your Silver
Glasses. Gravity-Elemental in your Armor will provide a solid defense against
Valron's Demit3. Time-Added Effect in your Armor will negate the Slow Status
caused by Bahba Velamyu.

Training Rating: *** or **** Once again, the Mystery Ninja's presence or Level
determines just how good of a place this is.

Monsters in this Area

Bahba Velamyu  HP-640 MP-40 EXP-285 AP-20 Gil-280
Battery Cap    HP-640 MP-58 EXP-270 AP-32 Gil-386 (Level 24)
Valron         HP-950 MP-80 EXP-300 AP-30 Gil-300 (Level 24)

Mystery Ninja  (All stats dependent on Cloud's Level)

For more information on the Mystery Ninja, use Ctrl+F and look up the symbol $

Monster Groups

6x Battery Cap          EXP-1620 AP-192 Gil-2316
4x Battery Cap + Valron EXP-1380 AP-158 Gil-1844
2x Bahba Velamyu        EXP-570  AP-40  Gil-560

Mystery Ninja  (All stats dependent on Cloud's Level)

Monster Info- Battery Caps carry Turbo Ether, and can Blind you with Seed Shot.
Bahba Velamyu likes to Slow some of your characters.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 570-1620 (Ignores Mystery Ninja's Presence)
AP Range: 40-192
Gil Range: 560-2316

EXP Average: 1190
AP Average: 130
Gil Average: 1573

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 70
50-55: 80
55-60: 100
60-65: 130
65-70: 140
70-75: 160
75-80: 190
80-85: 250
85-90: 240
90-95: 270
95-99: 240

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,850 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Manipulate a Valron and have it Dive Kick you. The
damage dealt is equal to 25% of your max HP. Battery Cap's Four Laser attack
will blast you for 300-350 damage.

Level X-1 Opportunity- Half of the time you will be fighting 5-6 enemies. This
place appears to be the best spot for kills, but you still have to factor the
group of only two Bahba Velamyus and an occasional Mystery Ninja (unless you
recruited her). This is still a pretty good place to get kills in, but the
number of monsters vary greatly.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

23B. THE SLIGHTLY OVERLOOKED FOREST

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Rocket Launch Pad Area, Forests

Preparation- Use any form of Poison protection currently available. Equip Steal
if you want some Remedies. Gravity-Elemental in your Armor will lessen the
damage from Valron's Demi3. Fire-Elemental put into a Weapon will help you take
out Kyuvilduns in one hit. The Enemy Skill Beta will make ashes out of
Kyuvilduns as well.

Training Rating: ** or *** It all depends on the Mystery Ninja's presence and
current level.

Monsters in this Area

Velcher Task  HP-900 MP-28 EXP-320 AP-31 Gil-350
Kyuvilduns    HP-800 MP-0  EXP-340 AP-34 Gil-368 (Level 24)
Valron        HP-950 MP-80 EXP-300 AP-30 Gil-300 (Level 24)

Mystery Ninja (All stats dependent on Cloud's Level)

Monster Groups

4x Kyuvilduns   EXP-1360 AP-136 Gil-1472
3x Valron       EXP-900  AP-90  Gil-900
2x Velcher Task EXP-640  AP-62  Gil-700

Mystery Ninja   (All stats dependent on Cloud's Level)

For more info on the Mystery Ninja, use Ctrl+F and look up the symbol $

Monster Info- Kyuvilduns are weak against Fire. Velcher Tasks carry Remedies,
which cure all status ailments.

Encounter Rate: *** It appears to me that the smaller a forest is, the higher
the Encounter Rate is. Keep that in mind.

EXP Range: 640-1360 (ignores Mystery Ninja's presence)
AP Range: 62-136
Gil Range: 700-1472

EXP Average: 967
AP Average: 96
Gil Average: 1024

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 6
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 50
40-45: 70
45-50: 80
50-55: 100
55-60: 120
60-65: 160
65-70: 170
70-75: 200
75-80: 230
80-85: 300
85-90: 300
90-95: 340
95-99: 300

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,210 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Manipulate a Valron and have it use Dive Kick on you.
Or, wait for it to use Demi3 on a character. Both methods work well.

Anything Else- If you haven't had the Mystery Ninja join your party yet, then
you will find her over 90% of the time in this forest area. After fifty
battles, I fought her forty-six times. Maybe it was just good luck on my part?
Anyway, if the Mystery Ninja is beefed up, then you will gain some decent AP in
this forest.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

23C. THE JELLYFISH HAVE COME

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Rocket Launch Pad Area, Beaches

Preparation- Petrify-Protection is highly recommended when you obtain such
defensive capabilities. Fire-Elemental in your Weapon should do the trick for
attacking the Crown Lances. Headbands should be worn to prevent an early nap-
time for you party members. Lightning-Elemental in your Armor will cut down the
damage from Bolt.

Training Rating: * This is EXACTLY the same as Cosmo's and Nibel's beaches.

Monsters in this Area

Crown Lance  HP-440 MP-70 EXP-225 AP-23 Gil-400

Monster Groups

3x Crown Lance  EXP-675 AP-69 Gil-1200
2x Crown Lance  EXP-450 AP-46 Gil-800
Crown Lance     EXP-225 AP-23 Gil-400

Monster Info- Crown Lances counterattack by Petrifying the attacker. Not good.
Also, they use Sleepel to lull your friends, then they zap your guys with Bolt
while they're asleep.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 225-675
AP Range: 23-69
Gil Range: 400-1200

EXP Average: 450
AP Average: 46
Gil Average: 800

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  4
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 40
25-30: 60
30-35: 90
35-40: 110
40-45: 150
45-50: 180
50-55: 220
55-60: 270
60-65: 340
65-70: 370
70-75: 430
75-80: 490
80-85: 650
85-90: 650
90-95: 720
95-99: 640

Mastering Knights of the Round: 10,870 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

23D. VELCHER BELCHERS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Rocket Launch Pad Area, Grasses

Preparation- Use any form of Poison protection at your disposal. Equip Steal if
you want a few Remedies.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Velcher Task  HP-900 MP-28 EXP-320 AP-31 Gil-350
Nibel Wolf    HP-700 MP-0  EXP-265 AP-24 Gil-260

Monster Groups

2x Nibel Wolf + Velcher Task  EXP-850 AP-79 Gil-870
3x Nibel Wolf                 EXP-795 AP-72 Gil-780
2x Velcher Task               EXP-640 AP-62 Gil-700

Monster Info- Nibel Wolves can use an ability called Howling, which brings more
Nibel Wolves into battle. You should be able to increase EXP, AP, and Gil that
way. Velcher Tasks use Poison Blow rather often, and they carry Remedies.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 640-850
AP Range: 62-79
Gil Range: 700-870

EXP Average: 762
AP Average: 71
Gil Average: 783

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 40
30-35: 50
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 110
50-55: 130
55-60: 160
60-65: 200
65-70: 220
70-75: 260
75-80: 290
80-85: 380
85-90: 380
90-95: 430
95-99: 380

Mastering Knights of the Round: 7,040 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

23E. SPECIAL: CHOCOBO TRACKS IV

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Rocket Launch Pad Area, Chocobo Tracks (must have Chocobo Lure equipped)

Preparation- Fire-Elemental in your Weapon should be equipped. Use any means of
Poison protection that you currently own. Gravity-Elemental in your Armor will
weaken Valron's Demi3 spell.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Velcher Task  HP-900 MP-28 EXP-320 AP-31 Gil-350
Kyuvilduns    HP-800 MP-0  EXP-340 AP-34 Gil-368 (Level 24)
Valron        HP-950 MP-80 EXP-300 AP-30 Gil-300 (Level 24)

Chocobo       [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

2x Kyuvilduns + Chocobo             EXP-680 AP-68 Gil-736  ('Great' Chocobo)
Velcher Task + Kyuvilduns + Chocobo EXP-660 AP-65 Gil-718  ('So-So' Chocobo)
2x Velcher Task + Chocobo           EXP-640 AP-62 Gil-700  ('So-So' Chocobo)
2x Valron + Chocobo                 EXP-600 AP-60 Gil-600  ('Great' Chocobo)

Monster Info- Chocobos are special creatures that you can catch, keep, and
breed at a certain point in disc 2. In disc 1, though, you can only catch and
ride them for a short time. To catch a Chocobo, you must eliminate ALL other
monsters in the battle WITHOUT harming the Chocobo in any way. You will see
some ratings above the Monster Groups section (Not Recommended, Not Very Good).
These state the Chocobo's type after you catch them and send them to some
stables later on in the game. The Great Chocobo is the best type of Chocobo to
start breeding, so catch one and send it to the stables when you get to
purchase the stables themselves.

Kyuvilduns are weak against Fire. Velcher Tasks carry Remedies, which cure all
status ailments.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 600-680
AP Range: 60-68
Gil Range: 600-736

EXP Average: 645
AP Average: 64
Gil Average: 689

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 80
40-45: 100
45-50: 130
50-55: 160
55-60: 190
60-65: 230
65-70: 260
70-75: 300
75-80: 340
80-85: 450
85-90: 450
90-95: 510
95-99: 440

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Manipulate a Valron and make it Dive Kick you, or just
wait for it to cast Demi3 on you. Both of these methods are extremely good at
building that gauge up.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

24A. AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT ON WUTAI

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Wutai Area, Beaches

Preparation- Equip Enemy Skill and Manipulate. DeBarrier is also useful on the
coastlines. You can steal some armor here, too.

Training Rating: ** The EXP is poor, but the AP and Gil earning is Okay.

Monsters in this Area

Adamantaimai  HP-1600 MP-240 EXP-720 AP-100 Gil-2000 [Death Force]

Monster Groups

Adamantaimai  EXP-720 AP-100 Gil-2000

Monster Info- Adamantaimai uses the Enemy Skill Death Force, but it can only be
acquired via Manipulation. This giant turtle will always counter your attacks
with Light Shell, and casts Barrier and Mbarrier on its free time. It carries
Adaman Bangles, an Armor with only two linked slots, but an unusually high
Defense.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 720
AP Range: 100
Gil Range: 2000

EXP Average: 720
AP Average: 100
Gil Average: 2000

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 8
15-20: 10
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 50
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 110
50-55: 140
55-60: 170
60-65: 210
65-70: 230
70-75: 270
75-80: 310
80-85: 410
85-90: 400
90-95: 450
95-99: 400

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,000 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

24B. W00T-TAI!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Wutai Area, Dirt

Preparation- Lightning-Elemental in your Armor will weaken Thunder Bird's
Lightning. Protection against Poison is also suggested. Lv.4 Suicide will work
on every single monster here, so don't hesitate to use it.

Training Rating: **** Excellent EXP, AP, and Gil. X-Potions and Phoenix Downs
are easily won here.

Monsters in this Area

Bizarre Bug  HP-975 MP-0  EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-340 (Level 28)
Tail Vault   HP-960 MP-0  EXP-440 AP-36 Gil-380 (Level 28)
Thunder Bird HP-800 MP-80 EXP-385 AP-36 Gil-420 (Level 28)

Monster Groups

3x Thunder Bird + 2x Bizarre Bug           EXP-1995 AP-188 Gil-1940
2x Bizarre Bug + Thunder Bird + Tail Vault EXP-1665 AP-152 Gil-1480
4x Thunder Bird                            EXP-1540 AP-144 Gil-1680
2x Bizarre Bug + Tail Vault                EXP-1280 AP-116 Gil-1060
3x Bizarre Bug                             EXP-1260 AP-120 Gil-1020

Monster Info- Bizarre Bugs can Poison all characters in one attack. They tend
to drop plenty of X-Potions after a battle. Tail Vaults drop Phoenix Downs
extremely often as well.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1260-1995
AP Range: 116-188
Gil Range: 1020-1940

EXP Average: 1548
AP Average: 144
Gil Average: 1436

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 80
60-65: 100
65-70: 110
70-75: 130
75-80: 140
80-85: 190
85-90: 190
90-95: 210
95-99: 190

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,470 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Thunder Bird's Lightning attack hits all characters
for roughly 370 points of Lightning damage. Mmmm, not bad.

Level X-1 Opportunity- There are 3-5 enemies here. This is a great place to
rack up some kills.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

24C. "YEAH, I'VE SMOKED RAZOR WEED BEFORE." -PERSON

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Wutai Area, Grasses

Preparation- Have Enemy Skill and Manipulate equipped. Carry Tranquilizers if
you don't want to be Furied.

Training Rating: ** The EXP is Okay, but the AP is lacking.

Monsters in this Area

Tail Vault  HP-960  MP-0   EXP-440 AP-36 Gil-380 (Level 28)
Razor Weed  HP-1000 MP-145 EXP-375 AP-30 Gil-350 [Magic Hammer]
Edgehead    HP-900  MP-80  EXP-370 AP-36 Gil-385

Monster Groups

4x Razor Weed              EXP-1500 AP-120 Gil-1400
2x Tail Vault + Edgehead   EXP-1250 AP-108 Gil-1145
2x Razor Weed + Tail Vault EXP-1190 AP-96  Gil-1080
2x Tail Vault              EXP-880  AP-72  Gil-760

Monster Info- Razor Weed has the Enemy Skill Magic Hammer, which can only be
obtained via Manipulation. They will try to counter attacks with Spaz Voice, a
spell that puts one character into the Fury status. Tail Vaults often drop
Phoenix Down, a useful substitute for Life magic.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 880-1500
AP Range: 72-120
Gil Range: 760-1400

EXP Average: 1205
AP Average: 99
Gil Average: 1096

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 70
50-55: 80
55-60: 100
60-65: 130
65-70: 140
70-75: 160
75-80: 180
80-85: 240
85-90: 240
90-95: 270
95-99: 240

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,050 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

24D. SPECIAL: CHOCOBO TRACKS V

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Wutai Area, Chocobo Tracks (must have Chocobo Lure equipped)

Preparation- If you don't have Magic Hammer, then equip Manipulate and Enemy
Skill.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Tail Vault  HP-960  MP-0   EXP-440 AP-36 Gil-380 (Level 28)
Razor Weed  HP-1000 MP-145 EXP-375 AP-30 Gil-350 [Magic Hammer]

Chocobo     [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

3x Tail Vault + Chocobo  EXP-1320 AP-108 Gil-1140 ('Average' Chocobo)
3x Razor Weed + Chocobo  EXP-1135 AP-90  Gil-1050 ('Not bad' Chocobo)
2x Tail Vault + Chocobo  EXP-880  AP-72  Gil-760  ('Not bad' Chocobo)

Monster Info- Chocobos are special creatures that you can catch, keep, and
breed at a certain point in disc 2. In disc 1, though, you can only catch and
ride them for a short time. To catch a Chocobo, you must eliminate ALL other
monsters in the battle WITHOUT harming the Chocobo in any way. You will see
some ratings above the Monster Groups section (Not Recommended, Not Very Good).
These state the Chocobo's type after you catch them and send them to some
stables later on in the game. None of these Chocobos are worth keeping, mind
you.

Razor Weed uses Magic Hammer, but it can only be used when the Weed is
Manipulated. Tail Vaults drop Phoenix Down quite often, which is a very good
substitute for the Life spell.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 880-1320
AP Range: 72-108
Gil Range: 760-1140

EXP Average: 1112
AP Average: 90
Gil Average: 983

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 50
40-45: 60
45-50: 70
50-55: 90
55-60: 110
60-65: 140
65-70: 150
70-75: 170
75-80: 200
80-85: 260
85-90: 260
90-95: 290
95-99: 260

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,560 battles





------------------------------------------------------------------------------

25A. WUTAI'S ANSWER TO MT. RUSHMORE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Da-Chao, Entrance

Preparation- If you need Magic Hammer, equip Manipulate and Enemy Skill. Wear
stuff that prevents Poison and Slow as well.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Jayjujayme  HP-640  MP-20  EXP-410 AP-35 Gil-350 (Level 28)
Bizarre Bug HP-975  MP-0   EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-340 (Level 28)
Razor Weed  HP-1000 MP-145 EXP-375 AP-30 Gil-350 [Magic Hammer]

Monster Groups

2x Jayjujayme + Bizarre Bug  EXP-1240 AP-110 Gil-1040
3x Razor Weed                EXP-1125 AP-90  Gil-1050
2x Bizarre Bug               EXP-840  AP-80  Gil-680

Monster Info- Jayjujayme likes to use Silk at the start of a battle, which
Slows one character. Razor Weed can use Magic Hammer when Manipulated, and
Bizarre Bug can Poison all characters in one hit.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 840-1240
AP Range: 80-110
Gil Range: 680-1050

EXP Average: 1068
AP Average: 93
Gil Average: 923

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 20
30-35: 40
35-40: 50
40-45: 60
45-50: 80
50-55: 90
55-60: 110
60-65: 140
65-70: 160
70-75: 180
75-80: 210
80-85: 270
85-90: 270
90-95: 310
95-99: 270

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,380 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

25B. PSSSST...IT'S ON THE ARM TO YOUR LEFT

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Da-Chao, Left Arm (Go directly Left at the Entrance)

Note: Pardon my directions, I'm really bad at that stuff.

Preparation- Wear Poison-preventing equipment, and throw in a little Fire-
Elemental in your Armor.

Training Rating: ** The EXP is good, but the AP is still below par.

Monsters in this Area

Foulander   HP-800 MP-100 EXP-440 AP-34 Gil-460
Bizarre Bug HP-975 MP-0   EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-340 (Level 28)

Monster Groups

3x Bizarre Bug + Foulander  EXP-1700 AP-154 Gil-1480
3x Foulander                EXP-1320 AP-102 Gil-1380
2x Foulander                EXP-880  AP-68  Gil-920

Monster Info- Foulander will not take damage from Fire, so don't even try it.
Bizarre Bugs can Poison your whole party in one attack.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 880-1700
AP Range: 68-154
Gil Range: 920-1480

EXP Average: 1300
AP Average: 108
Gil Average: 1260

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 90
60-65: 120
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 220
85-90: 220
90-95: 250
95-99: 220

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,630 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

25C. ZEE UPPER PATH

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Da-Chao, Upper Path (Go North at the Entrance)

Preparation- Equip yourself with stuff that negates Poison and Slow. Fire
protection should also be considered.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Foulander   HP-800 MP-100 EXP-440 AP-34 Gil-460
Bizarre Bug HP-975 MP-0   EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-340 (Level 28)
Jayjujayme  HP-640 MP-20  EXP-410 AP-35 Gil-350 (Level 28)

Monster Groups

3x Foulander                 EXP-1320 AP-102 Gil-1380
2x Jayjujayme + Bizarre Bug  EXP-1240 AP-110 Gil-1040
2x Foulander                 EXP-880  AP-68  Gil-920

Monster Info- Foulander will not take damage from Fire, so don't even try it.
Bizarre Bugs can Poison your whole party in one attack, and Jayjujayme uses
Silk to Slow a character down.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 880-1320
AP Range: 68-110
Gil Range: 920-1380

EXP Average: 1147
AP Average: 93
Gil Average: 1113

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 60
45-50: 70
50-55: 90
55-60: 100
60-65: 130
65-70: 150
70-75: 170
75-80: 190
80-85: 250
85-90: 250
90-95: 280
95-99: 250

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,380 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

25D. YES, A HAND MADE OF STONE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Da-Chao, Upper Path, Arm to the Right (Go Right on the Upper Path)

Preparation- Equip Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon. Wear stuff that protects
you from Cold, Slow, and Lightning. Prepare to lose some MP in this area, due
to some pesky Chinese winged monsters.

Training Rating: *** This is the best place to level up in Da-Chao. The whole
place suffers from AP lackage, though.

Monsters in this Area

Jayjujayme  HP-640  MP-20  EXP-410 AP-35 Gil-350 (Level 28)
Garuda      HP-1400 MP-200 EXP-520 AP-30 Gil-520

Monster Groups

3x Jayjujayme + Garuda  EXP-1750 AP-135 Gil-1570
2x Jayjujayme + Garuda  EXP-1340 AP-100 Gil-1220
2x Garuda               EXP-1040 AP-60  Gil-1040

Monster Info- Jayjujayme likes to start things off with Silk (Slows one
opponent). Garuda is weak against Wind, but it can steal a lot of MP from you
with Dance. Garuda will not take damage from Cold or Lightning.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 1040-1750
AP Range: 60-135
Gil Range: 1040-1570

EXP Average: 1377
AP Average: 98
Gil Average: 1277

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 120
70-75: 140
75-80: 160
80-85: 210
85-90: 210
90-95: 240
95-99: 210

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,100 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Garuda's Bolt2 and Ice2 will deal around 400 points of
damage to its opponent.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

25E. THE CAVE OF THE SEA GOD IS NEAR

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Da-Chao, Upper-Left zone (There should be a cave nearby.)

Preparation- Wear equipment that will prevent or protect you from Cold,
Lightning, Slow, and Poison. Equip Choco/Mog-Elemental for some extra power.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Jayjujayme  HP-640  MP-20  EXP-410 AP-35 Gil-350 (Level 28)
Garuda      HP-1400 MP-200 EXP-520 AP-30 Gil-520
Bizarre Bug HP-975  MP-0   EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-340 (Level 28)

Monster Groups

3x Jayjujayme + Garuda  EXP-1750 AP-135 Gil-1570
2x Jayjujayme + Garuda  EXP-1340 AP-100 Gil-1220
2x Garuda               EXP-1040 AP-60  Gil-1040
2x Bizarre Bug          EXP-840  AP-80  Gil-680

Monster Info- Jayjujayme can use Silk to Slow one character. Bizarre Bugs are
capable of Poisoning the entire party. Garuda can take away your MP with Dance,
but they falter against Wind. They don't take damage from Cold or Lightning.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 840-1750
AP Range: 60-135
Gil Range: 680-1570

EXP Average: 1243
AP Average: 94
Gil Average: 1128

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 9
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 70
50-55: 80
55-60: 100
60-65: 120
65-70: 140
70-75: 160
75-80: 180
80-85: 240
85-90: 230
90-95: 260
95-99: 230

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,320 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Garuda's Ice2 and Bolt2 do around 400 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

25F. THE ULTIMATE HAND OF DA-CHAO

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Da-Chao, Hand above the Cave area

Preparation- For defense, equip stuff that wards off Slow, Cold, Lightning, and
Fire. Wear Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon to shred apart some Garudas.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Jayjujayme  HP-640  MP-20  EXP-410 AP-35 Gil-350 (Level 28)
Garuda      HP-1400 MP-200 EXP-520 AP-30 Gil-520
Foulander   HP-800  MP-100 EXP-440 AP-34 Gil-460

Monster Groups

3x Garuda              EXP-1560 AP-90  Gil-1560
2x Garuda + Foulander  EXP-1480 AP-94  Gil-1500
2x Foulander + Garuda  EXP-1400 AP-98  Gil-1440
2x Jayjujayme + Garuda EXP-1340 AP-100 Gil-1220
2x Foulander           EXP-880  AP-68  Gil-920

Monster Info- Garudas are weak against Wind, but they don't take damage from
Cold or Lightning. They like to damage your MP with Dance. Foulanders do not
take damage from Fire. Jayjujayme uses Silk, which Slows one character.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 880-1560
AP Range: 68-100
Gil Range: 920-1560

EXP Average: 1332
AP Average: 90
Gil Average: 1328

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 220
85-90: 220
90-95: 240
95-99: 220

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,560 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Garuda's Ice2 and Bolt2 does around 400 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

26A. TONADU HAS STORMED THE SAND!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Icicle Area, Beaches (Yes, you can get to the Icicle Area. It's where
Bone Village is.)

Preparation- If you want some Bird Wings, equip Steal. Have Choco/Mog-Elemental
placed into your Weapon. Wear some Darkness protection to be safe.

Training Rating: * All I can say is, "What the fudge?"

Monsters in this Area

Tonadu  HP-1600 MP-0 EXP-600 AP-45 Gil-600

Monster Groups

Tonadu  EXP-600 AP-45 Gil-600

Monster Info- Tonadu is weak against Wind, and it carries Bird Wings. It can
blind you with Great Gale.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 600
AP Range: 45
Gil Range: 600

EXP Average: 600
AP Average: 45
Gil Average: 600

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 80
40-45: 110
45-50: 140
50-55: 170
55-60: 200
60-65: 250
65-70: 280
70-75: 320
75-80: 370
80-85: 490
85-90: 490
90-95: 540
95-99: 480

Mastering Knights of the Round: 11,110 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

26B. WEAR YOUR VLAK JACKETS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Icicle Area, Grasses

Preparation- Equip Steal, and equip Enemy Skill if you don't already have Lv.4
Suicide. Be prepared for a long fight with Vlakorados, should you train here.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Vlakorados  HP-33333 MP-333 EXP-510 AP-40 Gil-460
Trickplay   HP-1500  MP-100 EXP-480 AP-35 Gil-800 (Level 24) [Lv.4 Suicide]

Monster Groups

2x Trickplay  EXP-960 AP-70 Gil-1600
Vlakorados    EXP-510 AP-40 Gil-460
Trickplay     EXP-480 AP-35 Gil-800

Monster Info- Vlakorados carries Carob Nuts, which are essential for breeding
ultimate chocobos in disc 2-3. Trickplays use the Enemy Skill Lv.4 Suicide, but
sometimes it takes them a while to use it.

Whenever a Trickplay uses the Gold Mountain attack, you will be given 800 extra
Gil at the end of the battle. How nice of them! :P

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 480-960
AP Range: 35-70
Gil Range: 460-1600

EXP Average: 650
AP Average: 48
Gil Average: 953

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 80
40-45: 100
45-50: 130
50-55: 150
55-60: 190
60-65: 230
65-70: 260
70-75: 300
75-80: 340
80-85: 450
85-90: 450
90-95: 500
95-99: 440

Mastering Knights of the Round: 10,420 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- If one of your character has a level with a multiple of
four, then wait for a Trickplay to use Lv.4 Suicide on you. The damage will be
devastating, but the Limit bar should fill up quite a bit.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

27A. D-DAY IN MIDEEL AREA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mideel Area, Beaches (Yes, it is possible to be in the Mideel Area in
disc 1. You won't be able to reach the town or forests, but you can battle on
the Dirt, Grasses, and Beaches. To get to this area, simply head clockwise
around the Eastern Continent, and as you approach the Mideel island chain, head
for the shallow waters that go near it. You should be able to make a landing on
one of the beaches below the main island.)

Preparation- Have Ice-Elemental in your strongest character's Weapon. Earth
protection and Darkness protection are good investments as well. If you want
some Dragon Scales, equip Steal.

Training Rating: ***** The EXP is Okay, the AP is superb, and the Gil is
outrageously high!

Monsters in this Area

Sea Worm  HP-9000 MP-200 EXP-1300 AP-200 Gil-5000

Monster Groups

Sea Worm  EXP-1300 AP-200 Gil-5000

Monster Info- Sea Worms carry Dragon Scales and are weak against Cold. They are
unaffected by Gravity, which is really sad.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1300
AP Range: 200
Gil Range: 5000

EXP Average: 1300
AP Average: 200
Gil Average: 5000

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 90
60-65: 120
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 220
85-90: 220
90-95: 250
95-99: 220

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,500 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

27B. CHILLIN' WITH SOME SPIRALS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mideel Area, Dirt

Preparation- I recommend that you have the Enemy Skill Beta or Aqualung if your
levels seem low to you. Have Mystify-Added Effect in your Armor to protect
yourself from Lv.2 Confu. If you need some Guard Sources, have Morph equipped
when you get it. Steal should be put on if you want a few X-Potions.

Training Rating: *****

Monsters in this Area

Hippogriff  HP-3000 MP-280 EXP-800 AP-80 Gil-1500
Spiral      HP-2800 MP-100 EXP-700 AP-80 Gil-1300

Monster Groups

3x Spiral  EXP-2100 AP-240 Gil-3900
2x Spiral  EXP-1400 AP-160 Gil-2600
Hippogriff EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1500

Monster Info- Hippogriff sometimes goes into the air, making it only reachable
for characters with Long Range weapons or magic. It has a nasty attack called
Lv.2 Confu, which confuses a character with an even numbered Level. Spirals can
be Morphed into Guard Sources, and they carry X-Potions. Don't be afraid to
blow your MP on Spirals if you have Magic Hammer. They have just enough MP to
give you 100 MP back.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 800-2100
AP Range: 80-240
Gil Range: 1500-3900

EXP Average: 1433
AP Average: 160
Gil Average: 2667

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 80
60-65: 110
65-70: 120
70-75: 140
75-80: 160
80-85: 200
85-90: 200
90-95: 230
95-99: 200

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,125 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- At this point in the game, Spiral's attacks alone should
do sufficient Limit-building damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

27C. THE HEAD HUNTERS AWAIT...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mideel Area, Grasses

Preparation- Once again, I recommend that you have the Enemy Skill Beta or
Aqualung if your levels seem low to you. Have Mystify-Added Effect in your
Armor to protect yourself from Lv.2 Confu. If you need some Guard Sources, have
Morph equipped when you get it. Steal should be put on if you want a few X-
Potions.

Training Rating: ***** This is the second best area in disc 1, and I must say
that this would be a perfect spot to ever begin leveling on the first disc.

Monsters in this Area

Hippogriff  HP-3000 MP-280 EXP-800 AP-80 Gil-1500
Spiral      HP-2800 MP-100 EXP-700 AP-80 Gil-1300
Head Hunter HP-2000 MP-100 EXP-650 AP-80 Gil-1000

Monster Groups

4x Head Hunter  EXP-2600 AP-320 Gil-4000
3x Head Hunter  EXP-1950 AP-240 Gil-3000
2x Spiral       EXP-1400 AP-160 Gil-2600
Hippogriff      EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1500

Monster Info- Hippogriff sometimes goes into the air, making it only reachable
for characters with Long Range weapons or magic. It has a nasty attack called
Lv.2 Confu, which confuses a character with an even numbered Level. Spirals can
be Morphed into Guard Sources, plus they carry X-Potions. Head Hunters drop
Ether fairly often, thus providing for quick MP nourishment. Don't be afraid to
blow your MP on Spirals and Head Hunters if you have Magic Hammer. They have
just enough MP to give you 100 of it back.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 800-2600
AP Range: 80-320
Gil Range: 1500-4000

EXP Average: 1688
AP Average: 200
Gil Average: 2775

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 120
75-80: 130
80-85: 170
85-90: 170
90-95: 190
95-99: 170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,500 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Head Hunter and Spiral's attacks should be strong enough
to fill the gauge at a relatively steady rate.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

28A. GREAT GALES IN THE WOODY BEACHES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Woodlands Area, Beaches

Preparation- If you want some Bird Wings, equip Steal. Have Choco/Mog-Elemental
placed into your Weapon. Wear some Darkness protection to be safe.

Training Rating: * Sense any deja vu yet? It's the same as Icicle Area's beach.

Monsters in this Area

Tonadu  HP-1600 MP-0 EXP-600 AP-45 Gil-600

Monster Groups

Tonadu  EXP-600 AP-45 Gil-600

Monster Info- Tonadu is weak against Wind, and it carries Bird Wings. It can
blind you with Great Gale.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 600
AP Range: 45
Gil Range: 600

EXP Average: 600
AP Average: 45
Gil Average: 600

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 80
40-45: 110
45-50: 140
50-55: 170
55-60: 200
60-65: 250
65-70: 280
70-75: 320
75-80: 370
80-85: 490
85-90: 490
90-95: 540
95-99: 480

Mastering Knights of the Round: 11,110 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

28B. IT'S TIME TO D-D-D-D-D-D-DUAL <_<

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Woodlands Area, Grasses

Preparation- You need protection from [Frog], [Slow-Numb], or [Petrify]. You
can Steal Remedies here to cure above ailments.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Under Lizard  HP-1400 MP-140 EXP-440 AP-45 Gil-420
Dual Horn     HP-2500 MP-0   EXP-550 AP-45 Gil-500

Monster Groups

2x Dual Horn  EXP-1100 AP-90 Gil-1000
Dual Horn     EXP-550  AP-45 Gil-500
Under Lizard  EXP-440  AP-45 Gil-420

Monster Info- Under Lizards use an attack called Petrified Frog, which Slow-
Numbs a character and turns him/her into a Frog. Fortunately, they carry
Remedy, so you can just cure your toady after a successful steal.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 440-1100
AP Range: 45-90
Gil Range: 420-1000

EXP Average: 697
AP Average: 60
Gil Average: 640

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 8
15-20: 10
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 120
50-55: 140
55-60: 170
60-65: 220
65-70: 240
70-75: 280
75-80: 320
80-85: 420
85-90: 420
90-95: 470
95-99: 410

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,330 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

28C. THE WOODS THAT WERE CUT DOWN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Woodlands Area, Dirt

Preparation- Have Choco/Mog-Elemental decorated into your Weapon, and equip
some Darkness, Frog, and Slow-Numb/Petrify protection. Steal may help you, too.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Tonadu       HP-1600 MP-0   EXP-600 AP-45 Gil-600
Under Lizard HP-1400 MP-140 EXP-440 AP-45 Gil-420

Monster Groups

2x Under Lizard  EXP-880 AP-90 Gil-840
Tonadu           EXP-600 AP-45 Gil-600
Under Lizard     EXP-440 AP-45 Gil-420

Monster Info- Tonadu can blind your party with Great Gale, but the giant bird
is bested by Wind. It carries an attack Item called the Bird Wing, which sort
of mimics the Great Gale attack. Under Lizards carry Remedies, but use
Petrified Frog, an attack that Slow-Numbs and Frogs one character.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 440-880
AP Range: 45-90
Gil Range: 420-840

EXP Average: 640
AP Average: 60
Gil Average: 620

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 10
15-20: 20
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 80
40-45: 100
45-50: 130
50-55: 160
55-60: 190
60-65: 240
65-70: 260
70-75: 300
75-80: 350
80-85: 460
85-90: 460
90-95: 510
95-99: 450

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,330 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   28D. SLAPS SLAPS SLAPS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Woodlands Area, Forests

Preparation- Wear stuff that protects you from Poison, Berserk, and Paralysis.
Choco/Mog-Elemental should be fused into your Weapon.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Kelzmelzer  HP-800 MP-0  EXP-440 AP-35 Gil-400
Slaps       HP-900 MP-50 EXP-370 AP-30 Gil-450

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

Monster Groups

5x Slaps      EXP-1850 AP-150 Gil-2250
4x Slaps      EXP-1480 AP-120 Gil-1800
3x Slaps      EXP-1110 AP-90  Gil-1350
2x Kelzmelzer EXP-820  AP-70  Gil-800

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

For more information on the Mystery Ninja, use Ctrl+F to look up the symbol $

Monster Info- Slaps likes to use several types of needles with specific status
effects, like Bug Needle (Poison), Paralyzer Needle (Paralysis), and Berserk
Needle (Berserk). Kelzmelzer uses Liquid Poison, which spews out a greenish gas
that poisons one character.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 820-1850
AP Range: 70-150
Gil Range: 800-2250

EXP Average: 1315
AP Average: 108
Gil Average: 1550

Battle Average:

 1-5:  1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 90
60-65: 120
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 220
85-90: 220
90-95: 250
95-99: 220

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,630 battles

Best Spot to Train- Try to fight in that really tiny forest on the island. The
Encounter Rate there is ***, trust me.

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- There are 2-5 enemies here. Much of the time you will be
facing a groups of 5x Slaps, which can really give you some brownie points.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

29A. IN THE TEMPLE OF THE ANCIENT ONES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Temple of the Ancients, Entrance (The whole place looks like a maze, with
some purple mist faintly floating around in the background.)

Preparation- Wear equipment that will protect you from Frog, Poison, and Slow-
Numb/Petrify. Ice-Elemental should be added into someone's Weapon. If you don't
have Frog Song yet, then equip Enemy Skill. If you need Remedies, outfit a
Steal Materia.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Doorbull     HP-2800 MP-160 EXP-760 AP-50 Gil-680
Under Lizard HP-1400 MP-140 EXP-440 AP-45 Gil-420
Kelzmelzer   HP-800  MP-0   EXP-440 AP-35 Gil-400
Toxic Frog   HP-500  MP-100 EXP-420 AP-30 Gil-260 [Frog Song]

Monster Groups

2x Kelzmelzer + 2x Toxic Frog  EXP-1660 AP-130 Gil-1320
2x Toxic Frog + Under Lizard   EXP-1280 AP-105 Gil-940
2x Toxic Frog + Kelzmelzer     EXP-1280 AP-95  Gil-920
2x Kelzmelzer                  EXP-820  AP-70  Gil-800
Doorbull                       EXP-760  AP-50  Gil-680
Under Lizard                   EXP-440  AP-45  Gil-420

Monster Info- Under Lizard carries Remedies and can Frog + Slow-Numb you. Toxic
Frogs often turn you into a Frog or use Frog Song. Toxic Frogs hate Cold, by
the way. Kelzmelzer can use Liquid Poison to Poison (obviously) a character.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 440-1660
AP Range: 45-130
Gil Range: 420-1320

EXP Average: 1040
AP Average: 83
Gil Average: 847

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 6
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 50
40-45: 60
45-50: 80
50-55: 100
55-60: 120
60-65: 150
65-70: 160
70-75: 190
75-80: 210
80-85: 280
85-90: 280
90-95: 310
95-99: 280

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,020 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

29B. HIEROGLYPHICS AT THEIR BEST

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Temple of the Ancients, Mural Room

Preparation- If you have Demi2 or the Laser Enemy Skill, have them ready.
Allocating Gravity-Elemental or Choco/Mog-Elemental in your Weapon will be very
helpful here.

Training Rating: **** If only there wasn't that battle with one Doorbull.

Monsters in this Area

Ancient Dragon  HP-2400 MP-450 EXP-800 AP-80 Gil-800
Doorbull        HP-2800 MP-160 EXP-760 AP-50 Gil-680

Monster Groups

3x Ancient Dragon  EXP-2400 AP-240 Gil-2400
2x Ancient Dragon  EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-1600
2x Doorbull        EXP-1520 AP-100 Gil-1360
Doorbull           EXP-760  AP-50  Gil-680

Monster Info- Ancient Dragons are weak against Gravity and Wind. They can be
killed in one Demi2 or Laser if their HP is an even number. They drop Turbo
Ether on some occasions, too.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 760-2400
AP Range: 50-240
Gil Range: 680-2400

EXP Average: 1570
AP Average: 138
Gil Average: 1510

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 80
60-65: 100
65-70: 110
70-75: 120
75-80: 140
80-85: 190
85-90: 190
90-95: 210
95-99: 180

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,620 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Let Demon's Gate layeth the smacketh down on your
characters for a while. Be careful, though, it seems to get critical hits when
you are least prepared.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

30A. THE SLEEPING FOREST HAS AWOKEN

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corral Valley, Sleeping Forest Entrance (You can get a Water Ring on this
screen.)

Preparation- Always have at least a Darkness or Slow protection on one of your
characters. Have spells ready that will target all enemies. If you want to
stock up on Dazers, then have Steal equipped. Missing Death Sentence? It's
back, so put on some Enemy Skill.

Training Rating: ***** This is THE place to train in disc 1.

Monsters in this Area

Mall Dancer  HP-600 MP-100 EXP-500 AP-56 Gil-700 (Level 32)
Boundfat     HP-500 MP-80  EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-350 [Death Sentence]

Monster Groups

3x Boundfat + 2x Mall Dancer  EXP-2260 AP-232 Gil-2450
3x Mall Dancer + Boundfat     EXP-1920 AP-208 Gil-2450
4x Mall Dancer                EXP-2000 AP-224 Gil-2800

Monster Info- Boundfats will use Death Sentence after they've been killed by a
Magic spell (not an Enemy Skill, mind you). They carry Dazers, an Item that
Paralyzes one opponent. Mall Dancer's love to get the party started with Dance,
an annoying leaf cyclone attack that gives off Darkness + Slow on all party
members.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 1920-2260
AP Range: 208-232
Gil Range: 2450-2800

EXP Average: 2060
AP Average: 221
Gil Average: 2567

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 6
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 50
55-60: 60
60-65: 70
65-70: 80
70-75: 90
75-80: 110
80-85: 140
85-90: 140
90-95: 160
95-99: 140

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,260 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- Four to five enemies will be in EVERY battle. This place
is positively bodacious.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

30B. HUNGRY? WHY WAIT?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corral Valley, Boney Path (This screen is NORTH of the area where you get
the Water Ring. It is a long path that looks like a boney spine.)

Preparation- Wear Mini-protection. That's pretty much it.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Hungry  HP-2000 MP-100 EXP-700 AP-60 Gil-600

Monster Groups

Hungry  EXP-700 AP-60 Gil-600

Monster Info- Hungry likes to Mini people, then Eat them. The eaten character
is removed from battle.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 700
AP Range: 60
Gil Range: 600

EXP Average: 700
AP Average: 60
Gil Average: 600

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 8
15-20: 10
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 120
50-55: 140
55-60: 170
60-65: 220
65-70: 240
70-75: 280
75-80: 320
80-85: 420
85-90: 420
90-95: 470
95-99: 410

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,330 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

30C. HEY, IT'S THE BIG GIANT SHELL YOU CAN JUMP ON!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Forgotten City (the screen with a big shell on it)

Preparation- If you do not have either Lv.4 Suicide or Death Sentence, then
equip Enemy Skill. Dazers can be stolen, in case you may have wanted to know.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Trickplay  HP-1500 MP-100 EXP-480 AP-35 Gil-800 [Lv.4 Suicide] (Level 24)
Boundfat   HP-500  MP-80  EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-350 [Death Sentence]

Monster Groups

2x Boundfat + Trickplay  EXP-1320 AP-115 Gil-1500
3x Boundfat              EXP-1260 AP-120 Gil-1050
2x Trickplay             EXP-960  AP-70  Gil-1600

Monster Info- Boundfat will use Death Sentence if it's killed by a Magic spell
(Enemy Skill kills don't count). They also carry Dazers, paralyzing Items.
Trickplays use Lv.4 Suicide, but not terribly often. Whenever a Trickplay uses
Gold Mountain, you will be granted an additional 800 Gil at the end of a
battle.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 960-1320
AP Range: 70-120
Gil Range: 1050-1600

EXP Average: 1180
AP Average: 102
Gil Average: 1383

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 60
45-50: 70
50-55: 80
55-60: 100
60-65: 130
65-70: 140
70-75: 160
75-80: 190
80-85: 250
85-90: 250
90-95: 280
95-99: 240

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,900 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- If one or more of your characters has a level that is
divisible by four, then wait for a Trickplay to use Lv.4 Suicide on you. The
damage done should help unleash your Limits.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

30D. GRIMGUARD = GOBLIN + SHIELD

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corral Valley Cave

Preparation- Equip your fellow characters with protection against
Water/Cold/Lightning. Steal should be equipped for some Water Ring pillaging.
Wear some White Capes or Mini-preventing equipment. If you want Death Sentence,
equip Enemy Skill.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Acrophies  HP-2400 MP-220 EXP-800 AP-90 Gil-1200
Hungry     HP-2000 MP-100 EXP-700 AP-60 Gil-600
Boundfat   HP-500  MP-80  EXP-420 AP-40 Gil-350 [Death Sentence]
Grimguard  HP-880  MP-120 EXP-600 AP-45 Gil-560

Monster Groups

3x Boundfat + Hungry  EXP-1960 AP-180 Gil-1650
3x Grimguard          EXP-1800 AP-135 Gil-1680
2x Boundfat + Hungry  EXP-1540 AP-140 Gil-1300
2x Hungry             EXP-1400 AP-120 Gil-1200
Acrophies             EXP-800  AP-90  Gil-1200

Monster Info- Hungry likes to Mini one character, and then Eat it (removing the
character from the battle). Acrophies carries Water Rings, a useful Accessory
that absorbs Water attacks. Boundfat will use Death Sentence when killed by a
Magic spell, and it carries Dazers. Grimguards pull some freaky shield spinning
stunts, but I'm not really sure what that does at the moment.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 800-1960
AP Range: 90-180
Gil Range: 1200-1650

EXP Average: 1500
AP Average: 133
Gil Average: 1406

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 70
55-60: 80
60-65: 100
65-70: 110
70-75: 130
75-80: 150
80-85: 190
85-90: 190
90-95: 220
95-99: 190

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,760 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Grimguard's Bolt2 and Ice2 do decent damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

31A. CHILL MAN, JUST CHILL!!!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Icicle Area, Snow

Preparation- Fire-Elemental in your Weapon is a good novelty to use here. Morph
should be equipped if you want a few Ice Crystals (cast Ice3 on all opponents).

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Bandersnatch  HP-860 MP-100 EXP-510 AP-40 Gil-600
Jumping       HP-999 MP-0   EXP-400 AP-30 Gil-50 (Level 24)

Monster Groups

3x Bandersnatch  EXP-1530 AP-120 Gil-1800
2x Bandersnatch  EXP-1020 AP-80  Gil-1200
2x Jumping       EXP-800  AP-60  Gil-100
Bandersnatch     EXP-510  AP-40  Gil-600
Jumping          EXP-400  AP-30  Gil-50

Monster Info- Bandersnatch is weak against Fire, and it can be Morphed into an
Ice Crystal. Jumpings have pretty good physical evade, just so you know.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 400-1530
AP Range: 30-120
Gil Range: 50-1800

EXP Average: 852
AP Average: 66
Gil Average: 750

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 50
35-40: 60
40-45: 80
45-50: 100
50-55: 120
55-60: 140
60-65: 180
65-70: 200
70-75: 230
75-80: 260
80-85: 340
85-90: 340
90-95: 380
95-99: 340

Mastering Knights of the Round: 7,580 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Jumping's Club Sword can deal around 500 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

31B. SPECIAL: CHOCOBO TRACKS VI

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Icicle Area, Chocobo Tracks (must have Chocobo Lure equipped)

Preparation- Fire-Elemental in your Weapon should be equipped. Morph is good to
have when you want some Ice Crystals.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Bandersnatch  HP-860 MP-100 EXP-510 AP-40 Gil-600
Jumping       HP-999 MP-0   EXP-400 AP-30 Gil-50 (Level 24)

Chocobo       [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

2x Bandersnatch + Chocobo        EXP-1020 AP-80 Gil-1200 ('Not Recommended')
Bandersnatch + Jumping + Chocobo EXP-910  AP-70 Gil-650  ('Not Recommended')
2x Jumping + Chocobo             EXP-800  AP-60 Gil-100  (Wonderful Chocobo)
Jumping + Chocobo                EXP-400  AP-30 Gil-50   (Wonderful Chocobo)

Monster Info- Chocobos are special creatures that you can catch, keep, and
breed at a certain point in disc 2. In disc 1 and early disc 2, though, you can
only catch and ride them for a short time. To catch a Chocobo, you must
eliminate ALL other monsters in the battle WITHOUT harming the Chocobo in any
way. You will see some ratings above the Monster Groups section (Not
Recommended, Not Very Good). These state the Chocobo's type after you catch
them and send them to some stables later on in the game. The Wonderful Chocobo
is essential for getting the greatest Chocobo type in the game.

Bandersnatch is weak againt Fire, and can be Morphed into an Ice Crystal.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 400-1020
AP Range: 30-80
Gil Range: 50-1200

EXP Average: 783
AP Average: 60
Gil Average: 500

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 7
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 50
35-40: 60
40-45: 80
45-50: 100
50-55: 130
55-60: 150
60-65: 190
65-70: 220
70-75: 250
75-80: 280
80-85: 370
85-90: 370
90-95: 420
95-99: 370

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,330 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Jumping's Club Sword can do roughly 500 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

32A. THE INSANELY HUGE GREAT GLACIER PART I

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Great Glacier, Random Encounter Areas 1 (These battles can be fought in
these parts of the Great Glacier: The World Map Great Glacier Area, and all
repetitive cut-screens.)

Preparation- Put Fire-Elemental in your Weapon. Wear Morph if you would like
some Ice Crystals.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Frozen Nail  HP-1300 MP-100 EXP-520 AP-50 Gil-800 (Level 28)
Shred        HP-900  MP-100 EXP-500 AP-40 Gil-950 (Level 32)
Bandersnatch HP-860  MP-100 EXP-510 AP-40 Gil-600

Monster Groups

3x Frozen Nail         EXP-1560 AP-150 Gil-2400
2x Shred + Frozen Nail EXP-1520 AP-130 Gil-2700
3x Bandersnatch        EXP-1530 AP-120 Gil-1800
3x Shred               EXP-1500 AP-120 Gil-2850
2x Frozen Nail         EXP-1040 AP-100 Gil-1600
2x Bandersnatch        EXP-1020 AP-80  Gil-1200

Monster Info- Bandersnatch is weak against Fire. Shred is weak against both
Fire and Wind. The Bandersnatch transforms into an Ice Crystal when Morphed.

Encounter Rate: ** in the Entrance, * in the Cutscenes

EXP Range: 1020-1560
AP Range: 80-150
Gil Range: 1200-2850

EXP Average: 1362
AP Average: 117
Gil Average: 2092

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 120
70-75: 140
75-80: 160
80-85: 210
85-90: 210
90-95: 240
95-99: 210

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,270 battles

Anything Else- Once again, I ask you to forgive me and my horrible sense of
describing what screens are in these areas. I hope it's not too hard to
understand.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

32B. THE INSANELY HUGE GREAT GLACIER PART II

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Great Glacier, Random Encounter Areas 2 (The screens that have these
encounters are the following: The area just outside of Snow's Cave, Snow's
Cave, the Northwest Split-Point area, the inside and outside of the Igloo area,
and the Log/Tree Bridge screen.)

Preparation- Have protection against Cold, Poison, and Confuse. Fire-Elemental
in your Weapon is the best offensive choice, although you can go with
Choco/Mog-Elemental or Gravity-Elemental as well. Equip Steal, because you can
grab some Circlets from Snow. Try to have Demi2 or Laser allocated. Morph
should be on if you want some Ice Crystals.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Lessaloploth HP-2000 MP-400 EXP-920 AP-65 Gil-1000
Magnade      HP-1000 MP-100 EXP-980 AP-50 Gil-1200
Snow         HP-4000 MP-160 EXP-500 AP-42 Gil-700 (Level 32)
Bandersnatch HP-860  MP-100 EXP-510 AP-40 Gil-600

Monster Groups

4x Bandersnatch     EXP-2040 AP-120 Gil-2400
2x Magnade          EXP-1960 AP-100 Gil-2400
2x Lessaloploth     EXP-1840 AP-130 Gil-2000
Snow + Lessaloploth EXP-1420 AP-107 Gil-1700
Magnade             EXP-980  AP-50  Gil-1200
Snow                EXP-500  AP-42  Gil-700

Monster Info- Snow, Bandersnatch, and Magnade are weak against Fire.
Lessaloploth is weak against Wind, and Magnade is also weak against Gravity.
Snow carries Circlets, a powerful magical accessory. Bandersnatch can be
Morphed into an Ice Crystal. The Magnade is very difficult to score a physical
blow on.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 500-2040
AP Range: 42-130
Gil Range: 700-2400

EXP Average: 1457
AP Average: 92
Gil Average: 1733

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 80
60-65: 100
65-70: 120
70-75: 130
75-80: 150
80-85: 200
85-90: 200
90-95: 220
95-99: 200

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,430 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Snow's Ice2 attack can do some real damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

32C. THE INSANELY HUGE GREAT GLACIER PART III

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Great Glacier, Snow Marker snowfield (it has a 'World Map' view)

Preparation- Have Choco/Mog outfitted into your Weapon, and be sure you're
protected from Poison.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Lessaloploth  HP-2000 MP-400 EXP-920  AP-65 Gil-1000
Ice Golem     HP-4000 MP-300 EXP-1000 AP-70 Gil-1500 (Level 40)
Jumping       HP-999  MP-0   EXP-400  AP-30 Gil-50   (Level 24)

Monster Groups

2x Ice Golem  EXP-2000 AP-140 Gil-3000
3x Jumping    EXP-1200 AP-90  Gil-150
Lessaloploth  EXP-920  AP-65  Gil-1000

Monster Info- Lessaloploth is weak against Wind. Jumping is kind of hard to hit
physically.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 920-2000
AP Range: 65-140
Gil Range: 150-3000

EXP Average: 1373
AP Average: 98
Gil Average: 1383

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 120
70-75: 140
75-80: 160
80-85: 210
85-90: 210
90-95: 240
95-99: 210

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,100 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Ice Golem's Cold Snap attack does around 400 points of
Cold-based damage. That ain't too bad.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

32D. THE INSANELY HUGE GREAT GLACIER PART IV

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Great Glacier, Random Encounter Areas 3 (These battles will be in the
following areas: the cave found in the Snow Marker fields, the area surrounding
the Lake Cave and the Lake Cave's interior, the western dead-tree screen, the
eastern tree split area, and the eastern mountainous split area. The Lake Cave
is the cave that you have to jump over those ice blocks to get to.)

Preparation- Put Fire-Elemental into your Weapon, and have protection against
Confuse and Cold. Equip Steal if you want some Circlets, and equip Morph if you
want a few Ice Crystals.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Ice Golem    HP-4000 MP-300 EXP-1000 AP-70 Gil-1500 (Level 40)
Bandersnatch HP-860  MP-100 EXP-510  AP-40 Gil-600
Snow         HP-4000 MP-160 EXP-500  AP-42 Gil-700 (Level 32)

Monster Groups

2x Ice Golem           EXP-2000 AP-140 Gil-3000
3x Bandersnatch        EXP-1530 AP-120 Gil-1800
2x Bandersnatch + Snow EXP-1520 AP-122 Gil-1900
2x Bandersnatch        EXP-1020 AP-80  Gil-1200
Ice Golem              EXP-1000 AP-70  Gil-1500
Snow                   EXP-500  AP-42  Gil-700

Monster Info- Bandersnatch is weak against Fire, and can be Morphed into an Ice
Crystal. Snow is weak against Fire, and carries Circlets.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 500-2000
AP Range: 42-140
Gil Range: 700-3000

EXP Average: 1262
AP Average: 96
Gil Average: 1683

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 9
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 100
60-65: 120
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 180
80-85: 230
85-90: 230
90-95: 260
95-99: 230

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,210 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Snow's Ice2 and Ice Golem's IceLaser/Cold Snap all can
do pretty good damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

32E. THE FROST-BITTEN CAVE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Great Glacier, Frost Bite Cave

Preparation- Have protection against Small and Poison. Put Choco/Mog-Elemental
or Fire-Elemental in your Weapon. Morph can be put on if you want Ice Crystals.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Hungry       HP-2000 MP-100 EXP-700 AP-60 Gil-600
Lessaloploth HP-2000 MP-400 EXP-920 AP-65 Gil-1000
Bandersnatch HP-860  MP-100 EXP-510 AP-40 Gil-600

Monster Groups

3x Hungry       EXP-2100 AP-180 Gil-1800
4x Bandersnatch EXP-2040 AP-120 Gil-2400
Lessaloploth    EXP-920  AP-65  Gil-1000

Monster Info- Bandersnatch is weak against Fire, and can be Morphed into an Ice
Crystal. Hungry likes to Mini a character and then eat him. Lessaloploth is
weak against Wind.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 920-2100
AP Range: 65-180
Gil Range: 1000-2400

EXP Average: 1687
AP Average: 122
Gil Average: 1733

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 120
75-80: 130
80-85: 170
85-90: 170
90-95: 190
95-99: 170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,100 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

33A. GETTING COLD YET?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gaea's Cliff, Outside

Preparation- WEAR A RIBBON, FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE!!! Protection against Cold and
Slow is handy, too. Equip Enemy Skill to learn a very pungent spell. Leviathan-
Elemental in your Weapon will help you to combat Malboro.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Zolokalter  HP-950  MP-90  EXP-700  AP-60  Gil-700
Headbomber  HP-1500 MP-200 EXP-640  AP-64  Gil-460
Malboro     HP-4400 MP-900 EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-100 (Level 44) [Bad Breath]

Monster Groups

2x Headbomber + Zolokalter  EXP-1980 AP-188 Gil-1620
3x Headbomber               EXP-1920 AP-192 Gil-1380
2x Zolokalter               EXP-1400 AP-120 Gil-1400
2x Headbomber               EXP-1280 AP-128 Gil-920
Malboro                     EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-100

Monster Info- Headbomber can Fury you with Extreme Bomber. Zolokalter can Slow
and Poison you with Toxic Barf. Malboro is weak against Water, and it use the
Enemy Skill Bad Breath (Poison + Sleep + Small + Frog + Darkness + Silence +
Berserk + Confuse on ALL targets). You had better be wearing a Ribbon before he
decides to pull that attack off.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1000-1980
AP Range: 100-192
Gil Range: 100-1620

EXP Average: 1516
AP Average: 146
Gil Average: 1084

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 70
55-60: 80
60-65: 100
65-70: 110
70-75: 130
75-80: 150
80-85: 190
85-90: 190
90-95: 210
95-99: 190

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,420 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Malboro's Frozen Beam does around 800 points of Cold
damage, and a Headbomber's Extreme Bomber does about 1000 damage + Fury. That's
pretty darn good, man.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

33B. I'LL BET SHIVA ONCE DECORATED THIS PLACE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside of Gaea's Cliff, First and Second 'Floors'

Preparation- Wear protection against Slow, Poison, Silence, Cold, Fire, and
Lightning. Enemy Skill should be on to get Trine and/or Magic Breath. Have
Morph on if you want some Holy Torches.

Training Rating: **** Cool, this place has better EXP than Mideel's Grasses.

Monsters in this Area

Stilva     HP-2000 MP-300 EXP-1000 AP-110 Gil-1100 (Lv.40)[Trine/Magic Breath]
Headbomber HP-1500 MP-200 EXP-640  AP-64  Gil-460
Zolokalter HP-950  MP-90  EXP-700  AP-60  Gil-700
Evilhead   HP-740  MP-45  EXP-650  AP-50  Gil-400 (Level 28)

Monster Groups

4x Zolokalter              EXP-2800 AP-240 Gil-2800
2x Headbomber + Zolokalter EXP-1980 AP-188 Gil-1620
2x Evilhead                EXP-1300 AP-100 Gil-800
Stilva                     EXP-1000 AP-110 Gil-1100

Monster Info- Zolokalter can Poison + Slow you with Toxic Barf. A Headbomber
can Fury you with Extreme Bomber. Evilhead can Silence you with Ultrasound.
They can be Morphed into Holy Torches, an Item that casts DeSpell on all
targets. Stilva uses Magic Breath and Trine, powerful attacks that are to be
reckoned with. I suggest you Manipulate it to get both of those skills. Be sure
to get Trine again, as it is the one and only miss-able Enemy Skill.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1000-2800
AP Range: 110-240
Gil Range: 800-2800

EXP Average: 1770
AP Average: 160
Gil Average: 1580

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 6
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 110
75-80: 130
80-85: 170
85-90: 160
90-95: 180
95-99: 160

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,130 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Stilva's Magic Breath can do as much as 2000 damage.
That's bound to get the Limit bar moving, but don't get too careless!




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

33C. NEARING THE DREADED SUMMIT

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gaea's Cliff, Third 'Floor' (A save point should be there.)

Preparation- Equip some protection against Silence and Darkness. Morph should
be on if you want a few Holy Torches

Training Rating: **** This place has better AP than the First and Second
Floors, but the First and Second Floors have a slightly better EXP Average and
Gil Average. It's difficult to say which area is better. In the end, I think AP
has more importance than EXP, so I usually go with this area.

Monsters in this Area

Cuahl       HP-1300 MP-60  EXP-720  AP-70  Gil-800
Headbomber  HP-1500 MP-200 EXP-640  AP-64  Gil-460
Blue Dragon HP-8800 MP-500 EXP-1200 AP-200 Gil-1000

Monster Groups

2x Headbomber + Cuahl  EXP-2000 AP-198 Gil-1720
3x Evilhead            EXP-1950 AP-150 Gil-1200
2x Cuahl               EXP-1440 AP-140 Gil-1600
Blue Dragon            EXP-1200 AP-200 Gil-1000

Monster Info- Evilhead can Silence you with Ultrasound, and it can be Morphed
into a Holy Torch. The Blue Dragon can give you Darkness with its Great Gale,
but you are rewarded with a Dragon Armlet pretty much every time it is
defeated.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 1200-2000
AP Range: 140-200
Gil Range: 1000-1720

EXP Average: 1648
AP Average: 172
Gil Average: 1380

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 120
75-80: 130
80-85: 180
85-90: 180
90-95: 200
95-99: 170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,910 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Blue Dragon has some powerful attacks that can range
from 800 damage to around 1800 damage. A Cuahl's Blaster attack can do around
650 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

34A. THE BUBBLY GREEN CRATER

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Crater

Preparation- Equip Fire-Elemental (Armor), Steal, and Lv.4 Suicide.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Grenade  HP-2000 MP-0   EXP-900 AP-100 Gil-400 (Level 32)
Gigas    HP-3500 MP-100 EXP-840 AP-84  Gil-560 (Level 40)

Monster Groups

2x Grenade  EXP-1800 AP-200 Gil-800
Grenade     EXP-900  AP-100 Gil-400
Gigas       EXP-840  AP-84  Gil-560

Monster Info- Grenades will explode after being hit twice OR being damaged
enough. They drop Right Arms occasionally. Gigas carries Gigas Armlet, Armor
that boosts Strength by 30.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 840-1800
AP Range: 84-200
Gil Range: 400-800

EXP Average: 1180
AP Average: 128
Gil Average: 587

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 60
45-50: 70
50-55: 80
55-60: 100
60-65: 130
65-70: 140
70-75: 160
75-80: 190
80-85: 250
85-90: 250
90-95: 280
95-99: 240

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,910 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- When a Grenade explodes, it delivers around 3500 points
of Fire damage. You may get knocked out like a light after this attack, so be
careful.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

34B. MONKEYS HANGING AROUND SCULPTURES, SOUNDS LIKE 2001 SPACE ODYSSEY

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Whirlwind Maze, Path (You should see several of Sephy's clones dropping
down here.)

Preparation- Have stuff that will cure or protect you against Sadness and Sleep
with you.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Sculpture  HP-1700 MP-100 EXP-860 AP-60 Gil-640 (Level 32)
Gremlin    HP-1500 MP-100 EXP-750 AP-60 Gil-750 (Level 36)
Ironite    HP-2400 MP-100 EXP-900 AP-48 Gil-680

Monster Groups

2x Gremlin + Sculpture  EXP-2360 AP-180 Gil-2140
3x Gremlin              EXP-2250 AP-180 Gil-2250
2x Sculpture            EXP-1720 AP-120 Gil-1280
2x Gremlin              EXP-1500 AP-120 Gil-1500
Ironite                 EXP-900  AP-48  Gil-680

Monster Info- Gremlins like to use Bad Mouth, a weird chant that Saddens a
character. Ironites put enemies to Sleep, then use Flying Upper.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 900-2360
AP Range: 48-180
Gil Range: 680-2250

EXP Average: 1746
AP Average: 130
Gil Average: 1570

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 4
15-20: 6
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 110
75-80: 130
80-85: 170
85-90: 170
90-95: 190
95-99: 160

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,850 battles

Anything Else- After every single playthrough of FFVII, I have yet to come
across a Tonberry here. Yet, many claim their existence in the Whirlwind Maze.
I believe them, but I don't know what screen they are located. If you know for
SURE, e-mail me the Tonberry's location in this Maze. Thanks.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

34C. KILLBIN, THE HORRIBLE DICE OF DEMISE!!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Whirlwind Maze, Jenova-DEATH's hangout

Preparation- Equip Fire-Elemental in your Armor, and Choco/Mog Elemental in
your Weapon. If you want to build up your Spirit stat, equip Morph. Wear
protection against Sleep, if you don't mind. Need Turbo Ether? Allocate a
Steal.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Dragon Rider  HP-3500 MP-180 EXP-1000 AP-80  Gil-690
Killbin       HP-3200 MP-380 EXP-700  AP-150 Gil-1000
Ironite       HP-2400 MP-100 EXP-900  AP-48  Gil-680
Wind Wing     HP-1900 MP-350 EXP-800  AP-60  Gil-500 (Level 36) [White Wind]

Monster Groups

2x Wind Wing + Ironite  EXP-2500 AP-168 Gil-1680
2x Ironite              EXP-1800 AP-96  Gil-1360
2x Wind Wing            EXP-1600 AP-120 Gil-1000
2x Killbin              EXP-1400 AP-300 Gil-2000
Dragon Rider            EXP-1000 AP-80  Gil-690

Monster Info- Both Dragon Riders and Killbins can be Morphed into Mind Sources.
Dragon Riders are weak against Wind. Ironite puts enemies to Sleep quite often.
Killbins carry Turbo Ether, and it can be stolen with ease. Wind Wing can use
White Wind, but the spell isn't on its attack list when Manipulated. I
think that you COULD try confusing it, then hope it uses White Wind on you, but
I'm not too sure about that.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 1000-2500
AP Range: 80-300
Gil Range: 690-2000

EXP Average: 1660
AP Average: 153
Gil Average: 1346

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 120
75-80: 130
80-85: 180
85-90: 180
90-95: 200
95-99: 170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,270 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Killbin's Fire spell does pretty good damage. The Dragon
Rider's Head Hunting 2 does pretty good damage, too.

Anything Else- After every single playthrough of FFVII, I have yet to come
across a Tonberry here. Yet, many claim their existence in the Whirlwind Maze.
I believe them, but I don't know what screen they are located. If you know for
SURE, e-mail me the Tonberry's location in this Maze. Thanks.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

35A. BARRET AND CAIT'S GREAT ESCAPE!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon, Path outside of Press Room

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

SOLDIER: 2nd  HP-4000 MP-340 EXP-1000 AP-85 Gil-750

Monster Groups

SOLDIER: 2nd  EXP-1000 AP-85 Gil-750

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1000
AP Range: 85
Gil Range: 750

EXP Average: 1000
AP Average: 85
Gil Average: 750

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 6
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 50
40-45: 70
45-50: 80
50-55: 100
55-60: 120
60-65: 150
65-70: 170
70-75: 190
75-80: 220
80-85: 290
85-90: 290
90-95: 330
95-99: 290

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,880 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The SOLDIER's Sword of Doom attack can do around 800
damage. That ought to help that bar.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

35B. WEAPON IS ATTACKING! OH NOES!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Aljunon and Junon Airport

Preparation- Put Lightning-Elemental in your Weapon. Enough said.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

SOLDIER: Second  HP-4000 MP-340 EXP-1000 AP-85  Gil-750
Roulette Cannon  HP-3000 MP-200 EXP-1200 AP-100 Gil-1600

Monster Groups

2x SOLDIER: Second  EXP-2000 AP-170 Gil-1500
Roulette Cannon     EXP-1200 AP-100 Gil-1600
SOLDIER: Second     EXP-1000 AP-85  Gil-750

Monster Info- A Roulette Cannon will only attack you if you attack it. It drops
X-Potion on occasions.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1000-2000
AP Range: 85-170
Gil Range: 750-1600

EXP Average: 1400
AP Average: 118
Gil Average: 1283

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 120
70-75: 140
75-80: 160
80-85: 210
85-90: 210
90-95: 230
95-99: 200

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,240 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- A SOLDIER's Sword of Doom can do up to 800 damage.

NOTE: The following areas can be found in any particular order without
continuing the storyline: Junon Airport, Goblin Island, Cactus Island, Mideel
Area, North Corel Desert, Ancient Forest, and Round Island. Thank you.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

35C. THE RETURN TO JUNON'S AIRPORT

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon, Airport (after acquiring the Highwind)

Preparation- Have Lightning-Elemental in your Weapon. That is all.

Training Rating: **** The EXP is very good here.

Monsters in this Area

SOLDIER: Second  HP-4000 MP-340 EXP-1000 AP-85  Gil-750
Roulette Cannon  HP-3000 MP-200 EXP-1200 AP-100 Gil-1600

Monster Groups

2x SOLDIER: Second + Roulette Cannon  EXP-3200 AP-270 Gil-3100
2x SOLDIER: Second                    EXP-2000 AP-170 Gil-1500
Roulette Cannon                       EXP-1200 AP-100 Gil-1600

Monster Info- A Roulette Cannon will only attack you if you attack it. It drops
X-Potions occasionally.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1200-3200
AP Range: 100-270
Gil Range: 1500-3100

EXP Average: 2133
AP Average: 180
Gil Average: 2067

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 50
55-60: 60
60-65: 70
65-70: 80
70-75: 90
75-80: 100
80-85: 140
85-90: 140
90-95: 150
95-99: 130

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,780 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The SOLDIER's Sword of Doom can do up to 800 damage.





------------------------------------------------------------------------------

36A. DUAL HORNS ON GOBLIN ISLE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Goblin Island, Grasses

Preparation- You need protection from [Frog], [Slow-Numb], or [Petrify]. You
can Steal Remedies here to cure above ailments.

Training Rating: *  My goodness, this is the same as the Woodlands Area.

Monsters in this Area

Under Lizard  HP-1400 MP-140 EXP-440 AP-45 Gil-420
Dual Horn     HP-2500 MP-0   EXP-550 AP-45 Gil-500

Monster Groups

2x Dual Horn  EXP-1100 AP-90 Gil-1000
Dual Horn     EXP-550  AP-45 Gil-500
Under Lizard  EXP-440  AP-45 Gil-420

Monster Info- Under Lizards use an attack called Petrified Frog, which Slow-
Numbs a character and turns him/her into a Frog. Fortunately, they carry
Remedy, so you can just cure your toady after a successful steal.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 440-1100
AP Range: 45-90
Gil Range: 420-1000

EXP Average: 697
AP Average: 60
Gil Average: 640

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 8
15-20: 10
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 120
50-55: 140
55-60: 170
60-65: 220
65-70: 240
70-75: 280
75-80: 320
80-85: 420
85-90: 420
90-95: 470
95-99: 410

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,330 battles

Anything Else- There are beaches on Goblin Island, but the battles there appear
on grass (with Grass encounters).




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

36B. OOOH! WOOK AT DEE WITTLE GOBWINS!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Goblin Island, Forests

Preparation- Have Steal and Enemy Skill equipped. That's it.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Goblin  HP-2000 MP-80 EXP-20 AP-20 Gil-20 [Goblin Punch]

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

Monster Groups

3x Goblin  EXP-60 AP-60 Gil-60
2x Goblin  EXP-40 AP-40 Gil-40
Goblin     EXP-20 AP-20 Gil-20

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

For more information on the Mystery Ninja, use Ctrl+F and look up the symbol $

Monster Info- Goblins use Goblin Punch, an Enemy Skill that costs 0 MP. They
also carry Zeio Nuts, essential for breeding the greatest Chocobo of all.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 20-60 (ignores Mystery Ninja's presence)
AP Range: 20-60
Gil Range: 20-60

EXP Average: 40
AP Average: 40
Gil Average: 40

Battle Average:

1-5:   5
5-10:  40
10-15: 130
15-20: 260
20-25: 460
25-30: 670
30-35: 970
35-40: 1270
40-45: 1630
45-50: 2050
50-55: 2500
55-60: 3010
60-65: 3780
65-70: 4210
70-75: 4860
75-80: 5560
80-85: 7310
85-90: 7290
90-95: 8150
95-99: 7170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 12,500 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

37A. DUAL HORNS ON CACTUS ISLAND!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cactus Island, Grasses

Preparation- You need protection from [Frog], [Slow-Numb], or [Petrify]. You
can Steal Remedies here to cure above ailments.

Training Rating: * This is the same as the Woodlands Area.

Monsters in this Area

Under Lizard  HP-1400 MP-140 EXP-440 AP-45 Gil-420
Dual Horn     HP-2500 MP-0   EXP-550 AP-45 Gil-500

Monster Groups

2x Dual Horn  EXP-1100 AP-90 Gil-1000
Dual Horn     EXP-550  AP-45 Gil-500
Under Lizard  EXP-440  AP-45 Gil-420

Monster Info- Under Lizards use an attack called Petrified Frog, which Slow-
Numbs a character and turns him/her into a Frog. Fortunately, they carry
Remedy, so you can just cure your toady after a successful steal.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 440-1100
AP Range: 45-90
Gil Range: 420-1000

EXP Average: 697
AP Average: 60
Gil Average: 640

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  3
10-15: 8
15-20: 10
20-25: 30
25-30: 40
30-35: 60
35-40: 70
40-45: 90
45-50: 120
50-55: 140
55-60: 170
60-65: 220
65-70: 240
70-75: 280
75-80: 320
80-85: 420
85-90: 420
90-95: 470
95-99: 410

Mastering Knights of the Round: 8,330 battles





------------------------------------------------------------------------------

37B. OUCHERS! 1000 NEEDLES!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Cactus Island, Desert

Preparation- Have Morph ready to make some Tetra Elementals. Lv.4 Suicide and
Manipulate are good offensive tools as well.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Cactuer  HP-6000 MP-120 EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-1000 (Level 40)

Monster Groups

Cactuer  EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-1000

Monster Info- Cactuer has some frickin high Evade. He can even dodge weapons
with 255% accuracy! To kill him quickly, use Lv.4 Suicide on him, then
Manipulate him and have him cast 1000 Needles on himself. He can be Morphed
into a Tetra Elemental, a very good accessory.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1000
AP Range: 100
Gil Range: 1000

EXP Average: 1000
AP Average: 100
Gil Average: 1000

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 6
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 50
40-45: 70
45-50: 80
50-55: 100
55-60: 120
60-65: 150
65-70: 170
70-75: 190
75-80: 220
80-85: 290
85-90: 290
90-95: 330
95-99: 290

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,000 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Cactuer's 1000 Needles will always do 1000 damage. This
is one of the best places in the game to build up your Limits.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

38A. SPECIAL: CHOCOBO TRACKS VII

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mideel Area, Chocobo Tracks (must have Chocobo Lure equipped)

Preparation- You can get the Enemy Skill Chocobuckle quite easily here. Buy a
Mimmet Green, and equip an Enemy Skill with Lv.4 Suicide on it. Equip Morph for
some Guard Sources.

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Head Hunter  HP-2000 MP-100 EXP-650 AP-80 Gil-1000
Spiral       HP-2800 MP-100 EXP-700 AP-80 Gil-1300

Chocobo      [Special Monster] [Chocobuckle] (Level 36)

Monster Groups

3x Head Hunter + Chocobo  EXP-1950 AP-240 Gil-3000 ('Not Bad' Chocobo)
2x Spiral + Chocobo       EXP-1400 AP-160 Gil-2600 (Great Chocobo)
2x Head Hunter + Chocobo  EXP-1300 AP-160 Gil-2000 ('Not Bad' Chocobo)
Spiral + Chocobo          EXP-700  AP-80  Gil-1300 (Great Chocobo)

Monster Info- Chocobos are special creatures that you can catch, keep, and
breed. To catch a Chocobo, you must eliminate ALL other monsters in the battle
WITHOUT harming the Chocobo in any way. You will see some ratings above the
Monster Groups section (Not Recommended, Not Very Good). These state the
Chocobo's type after you catch them and send them to some stables that you can
purchase at the Chocobo Farm now. Get some Great Chocobos, they are
instrumental in breeding much better types of Chocobo.

You can acquire the Enemy Skill Chocobuckle from the Chocobos here. How? First,
you must throw a Mimett Green at the Chocobo. Next, you should use the Enemy
Skill Lv.4 Suicide on it. The Chocobo should cast it on the character who
damaged it. Voila.

Head Hunters drop Ether quite often. Spirals can be Morphed into Guard Sources.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 700-1950
AP Range: 80-240
Gil Range: 1300-3000

EXP Average: 1338
AP Average: 160
Gil Average: 2225

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 220
85-90: 220
90-95: 240
95-99: 210

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,130 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

38B. MIDEEL'S WONDROUS FORESTS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mideel Area, Forests

Preparation- Wear stuff that protects you from Sleep. If you want Dream Powder,
then equip Morph.

Training Rating: **** or ***** It's a **** with the Mystery Ninja, and a *****
without her.

Monsters in this Area

Head Hunter  HP-2000 MP-100 EXP-650 AP-80 Gil-1000
Crysales     HP-1500 MP-100 EXP-800 AP-80 Gil-600

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

Monster Groups

4x Head Hunter  EXP-2600 AP-320 Gil-4000
3x Crysales     EXP-2400 AP-240 Gil-1800
3x Head Hunter  EXP-1950 AP-240 Gil-3000

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

For more info on the Mystery Ninja, use Ctrl+F and look up the symbol $

Monster Info- Crysales loves to put its attackers to Sleep. It can be Morphed
into a Dream Powder. Head Hunters drop Ether extremely often.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1950-2600 (ignores Mystery Ninja's presence)
AP Range: 240-320
Gil Range: 1800-4000

EXP Average: 2317
AP Average: 267
Gil Average: 2933

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 8
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 40
55-60: 50
60-65: 70
65-70: 70
70-75: 80
75-80: 100
80-85: 130
85-90: 130
90-95: 140
95-99: 120

Mastering Knights of the Round: 1,870 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-1 Opportunity- You can fight 3-4 enemies here. 'Tis good enough.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

39A. 1000 NEEDLES IN NORTH COREL

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Corel Area, Desert (only reachable by Green, Black, or Gold Chocobo)

Preparation- Have Morph ready to make some Tetra Elementals. Lv.4 Suicide and
Manipulate are good offensive tools as well. Have Ice/ChocoMog-Elemental in
your strongest character's Weapon. Earth protection and Darkness protection are
good investments as well. If you want some Dragon Scales or Bird Wings, equip
Steal.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Sea Worm  HP-9000 MP-200 EXP-1300 AP-200 Gil-5000
Cactuer   HP-6000 MP-120 EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-1000 (Level 40)
Tonadu    HP-1600 MP-0   EXP-600  AP-45  Gil-600

Monster Groups

Sea Worm  EXP-1300 AP-200 Gil-5000
Cactuer   EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-1000
Tonadu    EXP-600  AP-45  Gil-600

Monster Info- Sea Worm is weak against Cold, and carries Dragon Scales. Tonadu
is weak against Wind, and it carries Bird Wings. Cactuer has some frickin high
Evade. He can even dodge weapons with 255% accuracy! To kill him quickly, use
Lv.4 Suicide on him, then Manipulate him and have him cast 1000 Needles on
himself. He can be Morphed into a Tetra Elemental, a very good accessory.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 600-1300
AP Range: 45-200
Gil Range: 600-5000

EXP Average: 967
AP Average: 115
Gil Average: 2200

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 6
15-20: 10
20-25: 20
25-30: 30
30-35: 40
35-40: 50
40-45: 70
45-50: 80
50-55: 100
55-60: 120
60-65: 160
65-70: 170
70-75: 200
75-80: 230
80-85: 300
85-90: 300
90-95: 340
95-99: 300

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,350 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Cactuer's 1000 Needles will always do 1000 damage.
Manipulate it, then have it turn you into a pin cushion.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

40A. FROG FOREST (GET IT?)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Ancient Forest, Forest

Preparation- Wear stuff that protects you from Darkness. Lv.4 Suicide is very
useful in the Ancient Forest. Steal should be equipped to get some Wizard
Bracelets.

Training Rating: **** The EXP is top-notch, but the AP is to be desired.

Monsters in this Area

Diablo   HP-4000 MP-200 EXP-1100 AP-70 Gil-1100
Rilfsak  HP-2000 MP-500 EXP-1000 AP-70 Gil-900  (Level 40)
Epiolnis HP-1800 MP-90  EXP-950  AP-70 Gil-1500 (Level 36)

Monster Groups

Diablo + 2x Rilfsak  EXP-3100 AP-210 Gil-2900
3x Rilfsak           EXP-3000 AP-210 Gil-2700
2x Rilfsak           EXP-2000 AP-140 Gil-1800
2x Epiolnis          EXP-1900 AP-140 Gil-3000
Diablo               EXP-1100 AP-70  Gil-1100

Monster Info- Diablo is unaffected by Fire and Cold. Rilfsak has an evasion
rate that nearly rivals a Cactuer. It likes to blind you with Autumn Leaves as
well. Epiolnis carries a Wizard Bracelet, one of the best Armors for a Magic-
user in the game.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1100-3100
AP Range: 70-210
Gil Range: 1100-3000

EXP Average: 2220
AP Average: 154
Gil Average: 2300

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 50
55-60: 50
60-65: 70
65-70: 80
70-75: 90
75-80: 100
80-85: 130
85-90: 130
90-95: 150
95-99: 130

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,250 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

40B. THE CAVE OF THE APOCALYPSE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Ancient Forest, Cave

Preparation- Equip Steal and some Silver Glasses.

Training Rating: *** Great EXP and Gil, but shallow on AP.

Monsters in this Area

Diablo   HP-4000 MP-200 EXP-1100 AP-70 Gil-1100
Rilfsak  HP-2000 MP-500 EXP-1000 AP-70 Gil-900  (Level 40)
Epiolnis HP-1800 MP-90  EXP-950  AP-70 Gil-1500 (Level 36)

Monster Groups

2x Rilfsak + Epiolnis  EXP-2950 AP-210 Gil-3300
2x Diablo              EXP-2200 AP-140 Gil-2200
Diablo                 EXP-1100 AP-70  Gil-1100

Monster Info- Diablo is unaffected by Fire and Cold. Rilfsak has an evasion
rate that can help it dodge most physical attacks. It likes to blind you with
Autumn Leaves, too. Epiolnis carries a Wizard Bracelet, which happens to be one
of the best Armors in the game for a character that uses a lot of Magic.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 1100-2950
AP Range: 70-210
Gil Range: 1100-3300

EXP Average: 2083
AP Average: 140
Gil Average: 2200

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 50
55-60: 60
60-65: 70
65-70: 80
70-75: 90
75-80: 110
80-85: 140
85-90: 140
90-95: 160
95-99: 140

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,570 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

41A. THE GOLDEN ISLAND

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Round Island (only reachable by Gold Chocobo)

Preparation- Equip Steal and Enemy Skill (if you don't have Goblin Punch or
Zeio Nuts.)

Training Rating: * This is just like Goblin Island's Forests.

Monsters in this Area

Goblin  HP-2000 MP-80 EXP-20 AP-20 Gil-20 [Goblin Punch]

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

Monster Groups

3x Goblin  EXP-60 AP-60 Gil-60
2x Goblin  EXP-40 AP-40 Gil-40
Goblin     EXP-20 AP-20 Gil-20

Mystery Ninja (All stats based on Cloud's Level)

For more information on the Mystery Ninja, use Ctrl+F and look up the symbol $

Monster Info- Goblins use Goblin Punch, an Enemy Skill that costs 0 MP. They
also carry Zeio Nuts, essential for breeding the greatest Chocobo of all.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 20-60 (ignores Mystery Ninja's presence)
AP Range: 20-60
Gil Range: 20-60

EXP Average: 40
AP Average: 40
Gil Average: 40

Battle Average:

1-5:   5
5-10:  40
10-15: 130
15-20: 260
20-25: 460
25-30: 670
30-35: 970
35-40: 1270
40-45: 1630
45-50: 2050
50-55: 2500
55-60: 3010
60-65: 3780
65-70: 4210
70-75: 4860
75-80: 5560
80-85: 7310
85-90: 7290
90-95: 8150
95-99: 7170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 12,500 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

42A. ON TO THE UNDERWATER REACTOR

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon, Path (the screen with the Dog that blocks the door that leads to
the Red Submarine)

Preparation- If you would like some Smoke Bombs or a W-Machine Gun, then equip
Steal. Wear protection against Darkness, Confusion, and Poison. Put Lightning-
Elemental into your Weapon.

Training Rating: ****

Monsters in this Area

Death Machine   HP-2500 MP-150 EXP-900  AP-80 Gil-1200
Slalom          HP-1600 MP-30  EXP-700  AP-70 Gil-1500
SOLDIER: Second HP-4000 MP-340 EXP-1000 AP-85 Gil-750
Guard System    HP-2200 MP-200 EXP-1100 AP-80 Gil-1200

Rocket Launcher HP-1000 MP-0   EXP-600  AP-60 Gil-300 (Lv.20) [Special Monster]
QuickMachineGun HP-1000 MP-0   EXP-600  AP-60 Gil-300 (Lv.20) [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

2x Slalom + SOLDIER: Second  EXP-2400 AP-225 Gil-3750
2x Guard System              EXP-2200 AP-160 Gil-2400
3x Slalom                    EXP-2100 AP-210 Gil-4500
2x Death Machine             EXP-1800 AP-160 Gil-2400
2x Slalom                    EXP-1400 AP-140 Gil-3000
Death Machine                EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-1200

Monster Info- Slaloms carry Smoke Bombs, and the Slaloms are capable of
Poisoning or blinding you. Death Machines carry W-Machine Guns, an outdated
Weapon for Barret.

QuickMachineGun and Rocket Laucher can only be found on a Guard System (wait a
little bit for them to appear). If you destroy them, you'll get an extra 600
EXP, 60 AP, and 300 Gil at the end of the battle. They are weak against
Lightning, too. Be careful, the Launcher can Confuse you with one of its
missile attacks.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 900-3400 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 80-280
Gil Range: 1200-4500

EXP Average: 2000
AP Average: 183
Gil Average: 2975

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 6
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 50
55-60: 60
60-65: 80
65-70: 80
70-75: 100
75-80: 110
80-85: 150
85-90: 150
90-95: 160
95-99: 140

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,730 battles

NOTE: For battles with Guard Systems, I'm going to be an optimist and ASSUME
that you'll wait for their Machine Guns or Rocket Launchers to come out first.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The SOLDIER: 2nd has an attack called Sword of Doom,
which deals around 800 damage. You could also let the QuickMachineGun attack
your whole party for about 600 damage per turn.





------------------------------------------------------------------------------

42B. JUNON PATH NUMBER 2

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Junon, Path 2 (the screen with the Save Point in it)

Preparation- If you would like some Smoke Bombs or a W-Machine Gun, then equip
Steal. Wear protection against Darkness, Confusion, and Poison. Put Lightning-
Elemental into your Weapon, and you should be fine.

Training Rating: **** This is the best place to train in the Underwater
Reactor, hands down.

Monsters in this Area

Death Machine   HP-2500 MP-150 EXP-900  AP-80 Gil-1200
Slalom          HP-1600 MP-30  EXP-700  AP-70 Gil-1500
SOLDIER: Second HP-4000 MP-340 EXP-1000 AP-85 Gil-750
Guard System    HP-2200 MP-200 EXP-1100 AP-80 Gil-1200

Rocket Launcher HP-1000 MP-0   EXP-600  AP-60 Gil-300 (Lv.20) [Special Monster]
QuickMachineGun HP-1000 MP-0   EXP-600  AP-60 Gil-300 (Lv.20) [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

3x SOLDIER: Second          EXP-3000 AP-255 Gil-2250
2x Slalom + SOLDIER: Second EXP-2400 AP-225 Gil-3750
2x Guard System             EXP-2200 AP-160 Gil-2400
2x SOLDIER: Second          EXP-2000 AP-170 Gil-1500
2x Death Machine            EXP-1800 AP-160 Gil-2400
2x Slalom                   EXP-1400 AP-140 Gil-3000
Guard System                EXP-1100 AP-80  Gil-1200

Monster Info- Slaloms carry Smoke Bombs, and they are capable of Poisoning or
blinding you with their Smog. Death Machines carry W-Machine Guns, an outdated
Weapon for Barret.

QuickMachineGun and Rocket Laucher can only be found on a Guard System (wait a
little bit for them to appear). If you destroy them, you'll get an extra 600
EXP, 60 AP, and 300 Gil at the end of the battle. They are weak against
Lightning, too. Be careful, the Launcher can Confuse you with one of its
missile attacks.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1400-3400 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 140-280
Gil Range: 1500-3750

EXP Average: 2243
AP Average: 199
Gil Average: 2486

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 40
55-60: 50
60-65: 70
65-70: 80
70-75: 90
75-80: 100
80-85: 130
85-90: 130
90-95: 150
95-99: 130

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,510 battles

NOTE: For battles with Guard Systems, I'm going to be an optimist and ASSUME
that you'll wait for their Machine Guns or Rocket Launchers to come out first.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The SOLDIER: 2nd has an attack called Sword of Doom,
which deals around 800 damage. You could also let the QuickMachineGun attack
your whole party for about 600 damage per turn.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

42C. CORVETTES UNDERWATER?!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Underwater Reactor, Scenic Water Path (you'll see the ocean outside of
the tube thing you're in)

Preparation- Put Alexander-Elemental in your Weapon. Have Morph ready and
waiting. Lv.4 Suicide can be put to good use in this tunnel.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Corvette   HP-3200 MP-260 EXP-1050 AP-60 Gil-2200 (Level 36)
Diver Nest HP-2800 MP-100 EXP-1340 AP-60 Gil-1250
Ghost Ship HP-6600 MP-100 EXP-1600 AP-60 Gil-2000 (Level 44)

Monster Groups

2x Corvette  EXP-2100 AP-120 Gil-4400
Ghost Ship   EXP-1600 AP-60  Gil-2000
Diver Nest   EXP-1340 AP-60  Gil-1250

Monster Info- Corvette can Fury you with one of its attacks, and it can be
Morphed into a Light Curtain. A Ghost Ship is weak against Holy, but it is
recovered by the Death status effect (Cid's Dragon Dive will heal and recover
the Ghost Ship, because the Death status is linked into Dragon Dive
automatically. The Ghost Ship can be healed by Death Status Attacks, which
works kind of like an elemental attack.) The Ghost Ship can be Morphed into a
Guide Book, which can be traded to a man in Kalm for some Underwater Materia.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 1340-2100
AP Range: 60-120
Gil Range: 1250-4400

EXP Average: 1680
AP Average: 80
Gil Average: 2550

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 120
75-80: 130
80-85: 170
85-90: 170
90-95: 190
95-99: 170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 6,250 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

42D. THE UNDERWATER REACTOR, BUH BAH DUM...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Underwater Reactor, Sub-Level Path (this area extends all the way to the
Save Point screen)

Preparation- Put Lightning-Elemental in your Weapon.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Hard Attacker  HP-2500 MP-150 EXP-750 AP-58 Gil-600 (Level 32)
Senior Grunt   HP-2600 MP-245 EXP-930 AP-90 Gil-800
Gun Carrier    HP-3400 MP-240 EXP-860 AP-75 Gil-1600
Guardian       HP-4000 MP-340 EXP-940 AP-60 Gil-500 (Level 40)

Monster Groups

2x Senior Grunt + Hard Attacker  EXP-2610 AP-238 Gil-2200
Senior Grunt + Gun Carrier       EXP-1790 AP-165 Gil-2400
2x Hard Attacker                 EXP-1500 AP-116 Gil-1200
Guardian                         EXP-940  AP-60  Gil-500

Monster Info- Gun Carrier is weak vs. Lightning.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 940-2610
AP Range: 60-238
Gil Range: 500-2400

EXP Average: 1710
AP Average: 145
Gil Average: 1575

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 90
65-70: 100
70-75: 110
75-80: 130
80-85: 170
85-90: 170
90-95: 190
95-99: 170

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,450 battles

Best Spot to Train- Fight in the area with the Save Point. The Encounter Rate
is higher.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

42E. THE MATERIA 'CLAW'

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Underwater Reactor, Huge Materia Storage Screen (You will see a claw
extract the Huge Materia from some Materia well in this screen.)

Preparation- Equip Lightning-Elemental in your Weapon, please.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Hard Attacker  HP-2500 MP-150 EXP-750 AP-58 Gil-600 (Level 32)
Senior Grunt   HP-2600 MP-245 EXP-930 AP-90 Gil-800
Gun Carrier    HP-3400 MP-240 EXP-860 AP-75 Gil-1600
Guardian       HP-4000 MP-340 EXP-940 AP-60 Gil-500 (Level 40)

Monster Groups

2x Guardian                 EXP-1880 AP-120 Gil-1000
Senior Grunt + Gun Carrier  EXP-1790 AP-165 Gil-2400
2x Hard Attacker            EXP-1500 AP-116 Gil-1200
Guardian                    EXP-940  AP-60  Gil-500

Monster Info- Gun Carrier is weak against Lightning.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 940-1880
AP Range: 60-165
Gil Range: 500-2400

EXP Average: 1528
AP Average: 115
Gil Average: 1275

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 70
55-60: 80
60-65: 100
65-70: 110
70-75: 130
75-80: 150
80-85: 190
85-90: 190
90-95: 210
95-99: 190

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,350 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

43A. NOW ENTERING THE GELNIKA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gelnika, Research Room

Preparation- Put Morph and Steal your characters. Make sure you're protected
from Poison, Lightning, and especially Confuse.

Training Rating: **** You can get a ton of Sources here, too.

Monsters in this Area

Unknown   HP-11000 MP-110 EXP-1500 AP-150 Gil-5000
Unknown 2 HP-13000 MP-130 EXP-3000 AP-300 Gil-10000
Unknown 3 HP-15000 MP-150 EXP-2000 AP-200 Gil-7500

Monster Groups

Unknown    EXP-1500 AP-150 Gil-5000
Unknown 2  EXP-3000 AP-300 Gil-10000
Unknown 3  EXP-2000 AP-200 Gil-7500

Monster Info- Unknown 2 can Poison you with Poison Fang. Unknown 3 can Confuse
a character with Abnormal Breath. Unknown carries a Fire Armlet, and can be
Morphed into a Power Source. Unknown 2 carries a Bolt Armlet, and can be
Morphed into a Magic Source. Unknown 3 carries an Aurora Armlet, and can be
Morphed into a Guard Source.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1500-3000
AP Range: 150-300
Gil Range: 5000-10000

EXP Average: 2167
AP Average: 217
Gil Average: 7500

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 50
55-60: 60
60-65: 70
65-70: 80
70-75: 90
75-80: 100
80-85: 130
85-90: 130
90-95: 150
95-99: 130

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,300 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Unknown 2's Slap attack can do up to 3600 points of
damage. Be careful here, almost every monster has a powerful attack.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

43B. THE HALLS OF A SUNK PLANE

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gelnika, Hallway (The screen with encounters is the area directly Left of
the Entranceway.)

Preparation- Wear Darkness protection, and equip Morph and Steal (for Ink and
Turbo Ether).

Training Rating: ***** The EXP is VERY, VERY good. The AP is Great, but not as
good as in Mideel's Forests.

Monsters in this Area

Bad Rap  HP-9000 MP-120 EXP-1100 AP-70 Gil-2500
Poodler  HP-6000 MP-220 EXP-900  AP-70 Gil-2500

Monster Groups

4x Bad Rap           EXP-4400 AP-280 Gil-10000
2x Bad Rap + Poodler EXP-3100 AP-210 Gil-7500
2x Poodler           EXP-1800 AP-140 Gil-5000

Monster Info- The Bad Rap can blind you. Poodler carries Turbo Ether, and it
can be Morphed into a Speed Source. Bad Rap carries Ink, and it Morphs into a
Luck Source.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1800-4400
AP Range: 140-280
Gil Range: 5000-10000

EXP Average: 3100
AP Average: 210
Gil Average: 7500

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 2
15-20: 4
20-25: 6
25-30: 10
30-35: 10
35-40: 20
40-45: 20
45-50: 30
50-55: 30
55-60: 40
60-65: 50
65-70: 50
70-75: 60
75-80: 70
80-85: 90
85-90: 90
90-95: 110
95-99: 90

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,380 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

43C. WE HAVE AN UNKNOWN IN THE CARGO ROOM

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Gelnika, Cargo Room

Preparation- Put Morph and Steal your characters. Make sure you're protected
from Poison, Lightning, Water, and especially Confuse. If you're patient, equip
Enemy Skill (provided you want Aqualung, although you can also get it in the
Gold Saucer's Chocobo Tracks).

Training Rating: ***

Monsters in this Area

Unknown   HP-11000 MP-110 EXP-1500 AP-150 Gil-5000
Unknown 2 HP-13000 MP-130 EXP-3000 AP-300 Gil-10000
Unknown 3 HP-15000 MP-150 EXP-2000 AP-200 Gil-7500
Serpent   HP-14000 MP-290 EXP-1400 AP-70  Gil-2500 (Level 40)

Monster Groups

Unknown    EXP-1500 AP-150 Gil-5000
Unknown 2  EXP-3000 AP-300 Gil-10000
Unknown 3  EXP-2000 AP-200 Gil-7500
Serpent    EXP-1400 AP-70  Gil-2500

Monster Info- Unknown 2 can Poison you with Poison Fang. Unknown 3 can Confuse
a character with Abnormal Breath. Unknown carries a Fire Armlet, and can be
Morphed into a Power Source. Unknown 2 carries a Bolt Armlet, and can be
Morphed into a Magic Source. Unknown 3 carries an Aurora Armlet, and can be
Morphed into a Guard Source. The Serpent can be Morphed into a Mind Source, and
carries a Water Ring. It uses Aqualung, but rarely.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1400-3000
AP Range: 70-300
Gil Range: 2500-10000

EXP Average: 1975
AP Average: 180
Gil Average: 6250

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 6
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 30
45-50: 40
50-55: 50
55-60: 60
60-65: 80
65-70: 90
70-75: 100
75-80: 110
80-85: 150
85-90: 150
90-95: 170
95-99: 150

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,780 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Unknown 2's Slap attack can do up to 3600 points of
damage. Be careful here, almost every monster has a powerful attack.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

44A. THE RETURN TO MIDGAR

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Midgar, Sector 8 Underground Entrance Screen

Preparation- Wear protection against Confuse. Equip Lightning-Elemental in your
Weapon. Enemy Skill should be outfitted to get the ??? Skill.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Behemoth  HP-7000 MP-400 EXP-1500 AP-100 Gil-2200
Cromwell  HP-3500 MP-120 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1500
Crazy Saw HP-3900 MP-340 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1300 (Level 44)
Manhole   HP-2500 MP-110 EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-3000

Monster Groups

Cromwell + Crazy Saw  EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-2800
2x Crazy Saw          EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-2600
2x Cromwell           EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-3000
Behemoth              EXP-1500 AP-100 Gil-2200
Manhole               EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-3000
Cromwell              EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1500

Monster Info- Cromwell and Crazy Saw are weak against Thunder. Behemoth uses
the Enemy Skill ???, and counterattacks with Flare if hit by certain Magic
Spells.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 800-1600
AP Range: 80-160
Gil Range: 1500-3000

EXP Average: 1333
AP Average: 123
Gil Average: 2517

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 90
60-65: 110
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 220
85-90: 220
90-95: 240
95-99: 220

Mastering Knights of the Round: 4,070 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- A Behemoth's Flare counter will do a massive 5500 damage
to one character. I hope your guy's still alive. You can reduce its HP so much
that its ??? can do up to 6999 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

44B. LADDERS, STEPS, AND BREAKING PLATFORMS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector 8 Underground, Encounter Area (There are two screens with these
encounters. The first screen is the area just below the stairway you went down
on in the Entrance Area. The second screen is the area below the first vent.
There are two Item chests on the Left and Right sides of the screen. See 'em?)

Preparation- Wear protection against Confuse. Equip Lightning-Elemental in your
Weapon. Enemy Skill should be outfitted to get the ??? Skill.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Behemoth  HP-7000 MP-400 EXP-1500 AP-100 Gil-2200
Cromwell  HP-3500 MP-120 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1500
Crazy Saw HP-3900 MP-340 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1300 (Level 44)
Manhole   HP-2500 MP-110 EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-3000

Monster Groups

3x Cromwell           EXP-2400 AP-240 Gil-4500
Cromwell + Crazy Saw  EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-2800
2x Crazy Saw          EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-2600
2x Cromwell           EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-3000
Behemoth              EXP-1500 AP-100 Gil-2200
Manhole               EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-3000

Monster Info- Cromwell and Crazy Saw are weak against Thunder. Behemoth uses
the Enemy Skill ???, and counterattacks with Flare if hit by certain Magic
Spells.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 900-2400
AP Range: 80-240
Gil Range: 2200-4500

EXP Average: 1600
AP Average: 150
Gil Average: 3017

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 7
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 80
60-65: 90
65-70: 110
70-75: 120
75-80: 140
80-85: 180
85-90: 180
90-95: 200
95-99: 180

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,330 battles


Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- A Behemoth's Flare counter will do a massive 5500 damage
to one character. I hope your guy's still alive. You can reduce its HP so much
that its ??? can do up to 6999 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

44C. MORE MANHOLES AND BEHEMOTHS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Sector 8 Underground, Save Point Area

Preparation- Wear protection against Confuse. Equip Lightning-Elemental in your
Weapon. Enemy Skill should be outfitted to get the ??? Skill.

Training Rating: **

Monsters in this Area

Behemoth  HP-7000 MP-400 EXP-1500 AP-100 Gil-2200
Cromwell  HP-3500 MP-120 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1500
Crazy Saw HP-3900 MP-340 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1300 (Level 44)
Manhole   HP-2500 MP-110 EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-3000

Monster Groups

Cromwell + Crazy Saw  EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-2800
2x Crazy Saw          EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-2600
2x Cromwell           EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-3000
Behemoth              EXP-1500 AP-100 Gil-2200
Manhole               EXP-900  AP-80  Gil-3000

Monster Info- Cromwell and Crazy Saw are weak against Thunder. Behemoth uses
the Enemy Skill ???, and counterattacks with Flare if hit by certain Magic
Spells.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 900-1600
AP Range: 80-160
Gil Range: 2200-3000

EXP Average: 1440
AP Average: 132
Gil Average: 2720

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 4
15-20: 8
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 70
55-60: 80
60-65: 110
65-70: 120
70-75: 140
75-80: 150
80-85: 200
85-90: 200
90-95: 230
95-99: 200

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,790 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- A Behemoth's Flare counter will do a massive 5500 damage
to one character. You can also reduce its HP so much that its ??? can do up to
6999 damage.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

45A. GONE WITH THE WINDTUNNEL :P

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Winding Tunnel Revisited

Preparation- Be prepared to be patient, as the Shadow Maker's Slow Gun is
horribly long (it's not as long as I make it seem, but it's still unnecessarily
lengthy to me). Equip protection against Slow and Confuse, and wear Lightning-
Elemental in your Weapon.

Training Rating: *

Monsters in this Area

Shadow Maker  HP-2000 MP-120 EXP-500 AP-25 Gil-500
Crazy Saw     HP-3900 MP-340 EXP-800 AP-80 Gil-1300 (Level 44)

Monster Groups

2x Shadow Maker + Crazy Saw  EXP-1800 AP-130 Gil-2300
3x Shadow Maker              EXP-1500 AP-75  Gil-1500
2x Shadow Maker              EXP-1000 AP-50  Gil-1000
Crazy Saw                    EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-1300

Monster Info- Crazy Saw can Confuse you with its attacks. Shadow Maker can Slow
you with its unnecessarily slow electric blast thingy. Shadow Makers drop Turbo
Ether almost 100% of the time, so that may make it worth sticking around. Both
monsters are weak against Lightning.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 800-1800
AP Range: 50-130
Gil Range: 1000-2300

EXP Average: 1275
AP Average: 84
Gil Average: 1525

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  2
10-15: 5
15-20: 10
20-25: 10
25-30: 20
30-35: 30
35-40: 40
40-45: 50
45-50: 60
50-55: 80
55-60: 90
60-65: 120
65-70: 130
70-75: 150
75-80: 170
80-85: 230
85-90: 230
90-95: 260
95-99: 220

Mastering Knights of the Round: 5,950 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

45B. ONE FULLY AUTOMATED FLOOR, COMING RIGHT UP

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Shinra HQ, 63rd Floor (Encounters weren't available here until disc 2.
Weird, seeing as this place flat-out sucks.)

Preparation: Ahahahahahahahahahahahahahahah!

Training Rating: * I'd give this a 0 star if possible.

Monsters in this Area

Hammer Blaster  HP-210 EXP-43 AP-5 Gil-80 (Level 12)
Sword Dance     HP-160 EXP-39 AP-6 Gil-90

Monster Groups

2x Hammer Blaster EXP-86 AP-10 Gil-160
2x Sword Dance    EXP-78 AP-12 Gil-180
Hammer Blaster    EXP-43 AP-5  Gil-80
Sword Dance       EXP-39 AP-6  Gil-90

Monster Info- Sword Dance can Fury you with one of its attacks. The Hammer
Blaster can Confuse one of your characters, so it helps to be a little
cautious.

Encounter Rate: *

EXP Range: 39-86
AP Range: 5-12
Gil Range: 80-180

EXP Average: 62
AP Average: 8
Gil Range: 128

Battle Average:

1-5:   4
5-10:  28
10-15: 85
15-20: 170
20-25: 290
25-30: 430
30-35: 630
35-40: 820
40-45: 1050
45-50: 1320
50-55: 1610
55-60: 1940
60-65: 2440
65-70: 2720
70-75: 3140
75-80: 3590
80-85: 4720
85-90: 4700
90-95: 5260
95-99: 4630

Mastering Knights of the Round: 62,500 battles




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

46A. GROSSPANZER FRONT

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Midgar, Sector 8 (the screen where you find a Mystile)

Preparation- Make sure you have relatively high HP. This machine can tear your
party into shreds quite fast. Lightning-Elemental should be put in a Weapon. I
recommend that you have high Magic characters equipped with an Enemy Skill that
has Trine on it.

Note: I think the Grosspanzer can Confuse you with its machine guns, but I
can't remember clearly. Equip Confusion protection just to be safe.

Training Rating: ***** You must kill every part of the panzer in every battle
to take advantage of the high EXP, AP, and Gil here. In my opinion, this is the
best overall training area in disc 2.

Monsters in this Area

Grosspanzer-Big    HP-4600  MP-200 EXP-800 AP-80 Gil-2100 [Special Monster]
Grosspanzer-Mobile HP-10000 MP-300 EXP-400 AP-80 Gil-1400 [Special Monster]
Grosspanzer-Small  HP-2900  MP-160 EXP-600 AP-80 Gil-700  [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

Grosspanzer-Big + Grosspanzer-Mobile + 2x Grosspanzer-Small

EXP-2400 AP-320 Gil-4900

(Sorry, I couldn't get it to fit on one line...)

Monster Info- When you get into a battle, you will encounter a Grosspanzer. It
has three parts...Grosspanzer-Big (A big cannon), 2x Grosspanzer-Small (A small
machine gun/cannon), and Grosspanzer-Mobile (some spiky treads). Killing off
the Mobile component will automatically end the battle, giving you EXP, AP, and
Gil for only the pieces you killed. The best thing to do is to wipe out the
entire Grosspanzer all at once. I suggest that you start rapidly casting Trine
or Magic Breath on the Grosspanzer, hopefully destroying all but the Mobile
part in one casting. Then, just finish off the Grosspanzer-Mobile. You'll get
extremely good AP in this area, provided that you take out the entire
Grosspanzer each time. You will win an 8-inch Cannon almost every time that you
beat a Grosspanzer. It is a powerful single-hit Item.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 2400 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 320
Gil Range: 4900

EXP Average: 2400
AP Average: 320
Gil Average: 4900

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 8
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 30
50-55: 40
55-60: 50
60-65: 60
65-70: 70
70-75: 80
75-80: 90
80-85: 120
85-90: 120
90-95: 140
95-99: 120

Mastering Knights of the Round: 1,560 battles


Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- The Grosspanzer-Small's Machine Gun can do around 2400
points of damage. If that doesn't move your Limit bar at all, then nothing
will.

Level X-1 Opportunity- You can get up to 4 kills per battle. Cool.

NOTE: I am an optimist, so all the info on the data tables above assumes that
you will kill the entire Grosspanzer each time.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

46B. FINAL FACE-OFF WITH SOLDIER

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Mako Cannon

Preparation- Equip Steal, Morph, and Lightning-Elemental in your Weapon. Wear
protection against Cold, Poison, Stop, and Silence.

Training Rating: *** I was expecting much better earnings, considering First
Class SOLDIERs are present. Oh, well.

Monsters in this Area

SOLDIER: First Class  HP-5000  MP-400 EXP-960  AP-90 Gil-2400
XCannon               HP-20000 MP-100 EXP-2000 AP-90 Gil-3000
Maximum Kimaira       HP-4000  MP-350 EXP-1200 AP-90 Gil-3800

Monster Groups

3x SOLDIER: First Class  EXP-2880 AP-270 Gil-7200
XCannon                  EXP-2000 AP-90  Gil-3000
2x SOLDIER: First Class  EXP-1920 AP-180 Gil-4800
Maximum Kimaira          EXP-1200 AP-90  Gil-3800
SOLDIER: First Class     EXP-960  AP-90  Gil-2400

Monster Info- SOLDIERs counter Magic spells with Silence, and they carry Shinra
Alpha Armor. XCannon spends over three turns powering up its attack, which only
does less than 400 damage (the attack is so weak, it just cracks me up).
Maximum Kimaira can be Morphed into a Guard Source, and its Northern Cross
attack can Poison a character. It also uses the Freeze spell, which can Stop
one character.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 960-2880
AP Range: 90-270
Gil Range: 2400-7200

EXP Average: 1792
AP Average: 144
Gil Average: 4240

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 6
20-25: 10
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 30
40-45: 40
45-50: 50
50-55: 60
55-60: 70
60-65: 80
65-70: 90
70-75: 110
75-80: 120
80-85: 160
85-90: 160
90-95: 180
95-99: 160

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,470 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity: Maximum Kimaira's Freeze spell can do up to 4100 damage.
Alternatively, a SOLDIER can use an attack that deals nearly 1500 damage to a
character. Both methods work fine, but the Freeze attack is rarely used.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

47A. THE NORTHERN CAVE EXPOSED

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, Entrance

Preparation- Have Enemy Skill and Manipulate equipped to gain a few old/new
Skills. Wear protection against Sadness, Slow-Numb, Silence, and Death. Morph
and Steal can be equipped for some somewhat useful Items. Put
Alexander/ChocoMog-Elemental into your Weapon.

Training Rating: *** It is now disc 3. There is an ultimate training area that
dwarves most areas, including this one.

Monsters in this Area

Dark Dragon  HP-14000 MP-600 EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500 [Dragon Force] [Laser]
Parasite     HP-6000  MP-300 EXP-1100 AP-100 Gil-1000 [Magic Breath/Lv.5 Death]
Gargoyle     HP-2000  MP-200 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-2500

Monster Groups

Dark Dragon  EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500
2x Parasite  EXP-2200 AP-200 Gil-2000
2x Gargoyle  EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-5000
Gargoyle     EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-2500

Monster Info- Gargoyles usually start the battle in their 'Stone Mode'. They
are invincible until they 'un-Stone' themselves. When killed, they sometimes
cast Lv.4 Death, wiping out all characters with levels that are divisible by
four (unless you have Death protection). Dark Dragon uses two Enemy
Skills...Laser and Dragon Force. You should Manipulate it to get both of them
with ease. Dark Dragons carry Dragon Armlets, and they can be Morphed into
Vaccines. Parasites are weak against Wind and Holy, plus they can be Morphed
and robbed of Remedy. They counter Magic with Silence, and they use the Enemy
Skills Lv.5 Death and Magic Breath.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 800-5000
AP Range: 80-350
Gil Range: 2000-5000

EXP Average: 2400
AP Average: 198
Gil Average: 3000

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 8
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 30
50-55: 40
55-60: 50
60-65: 60
65-70: 70
70-75: 80
75-80: 90
80-85: 120
85-90: 120
90-95: 140
95-99: 120

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,530 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Let a Dark Dragon assault you. It even uses Ultima, so
be careful.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

47B. "I NEED SCISSORS! 61!" -COLTSCATCH88

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, Area Below Entrance (the screen where there are
plenty of places where you either jump down or climb up)

Preparation- Have Enemy Skill and Manipulate equipped to gain a few old/new
Skills. Wear protection against Sadness, Slow-Numb, Silence, and Death. Morph
and Steal can be equipped for some somewhat useful Items. Put
Alexander/ChocoMog-Elemental into your Weapon.

Training Rating: **** This sort of assumes that you kill Scissors(Upper and
Lower) in every battle.

Monsters in this Area

Dark Dragon  HP-14000 MP-600 EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500 [Dragon Force] [Laser]
Parasite     HP-6000  MP-300 EXP-1100 AP-100 Gil-1000 [Magic Breath/Lv.5 Death]
Gargoyle     HP-2000  MP-200 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-2500
Scissors     HP-2900  MP-88  EXP-1000 AP-90  Gil-1400

Scissors (Upper)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]
Scissors (Lower)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

Dark Dragon  EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500
2x Parasite  EXP-2200 AP-200 Gil-2000
2x Gargoyle  EXP-1600 AP-160 Gil-5000

Scissors + Scissors(Upper) + Scissors(Lower)  EXP-2400 AP-180 Gil-2800

Monster Info- Gargoyles usually start the battle in their 'Stone Mode'. They
are invincible until they 'un-Stone' themselves. When killed, they sometimes
cast Lv.4 Death, wiping out all characters with levels that are divisible by
four (unless you have Death protection). Dark Dragon uses two Enemy
Skills...Laser and Dragon Force. You should Manipulate it to get both of them
with ease. Dark Dragons carry Dragon Armlets, and they can be Morphed into
Vaccines. Parasites are weak against Wind and Holy, plus they can be Morphed
and robbed of Remedy. They counter Magic with Silence, and they use the Enemy
Skills Lv.5 Death and Magic Breath.

All battles with Scissors will start out with only a Scissors. If you can
deplete its HP enough, it will split into Scissors(Upper) and Scissors(Lower).
Scissors carries an Ether, but if you steal it before it splits, the other
Scissors will no longer carry Ether. Just before a Scissors splits, it will use
Death Scissors on the character who last attacked it, instantly KO'ing him/her
(unless you have Death protection equipped). If you kill the Scissors(Lower)
first, then Scissors(Upper) will counter the character who killed it with
Scissor Tornado, removing him/her from the battle (it will use Scissor Tornado
once its turn comes, not directly after the kill). Both Scissors(Upper) and
Scissors(Lower) carry Ether if you didn't Steal one from the original Scissors.
When you win the battle against all three Scissor forms, you will get 2400 EXP,
180 AP, and 2800 Gil. Not bad at all.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 1600-5000 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 160-350
Gil Range: 2000-5000

EXP Average: 2800
AP Average: 223
Gil Average: 3075

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 2
15-20: 4
20-25: 7
25-30: 10
30-35: 10
35-40: 20
40-45: 20
45-50: 30
50-55: 40
55-60: 40
60-65: 50
65-70: 60
70-75: 70
75-80: 80
80-85: 100
85-90: 100
90-95: 120
95-99: 100

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,240 battles

NOTE: All of the info in the above data tables assumes that you will wait until
Scissors splits before you kill it.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Let a Dark Dragon assault you. It even uses Ultima on
occasions, so be careful.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

47C. JUMP, JUMP, JUMP!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, Jumping Area (I call it this because you have to
jump down all these stoney platforms. This screen should have several cave
doors you can enter as well.)

Preparation- Have Enemy Skill and Manipulate equipped to gain a few old/new
Skills. Wear protection against Sadness, Slow-Numb, Silence, and Death. Morph
and Steal can be equipped for some somewhat useful Items. Put
Alexander/ChocoMog-Elemental into your Weapon.

Training Rating: ***** This sort of assumes that you kill Scissors(Upper and
Lower) in every battle.

Monsters in this Area

Dark Dragon  HP-14000 MP-600 EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500 [Dragon Force] [Laser]
Parasite     HP-6000  MP-300 EXP-1100 AP-100 Gil-1000 [Magic Breath/Lv.5 Death]
Gargoyle     HP-2000  MP-200 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-2500
Scissors     HP-2900  MP-88  EXP-1000 AP-90  Gil-1400

Scissors (Upper)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]
Scissors (Lower)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

Dark Dragon  EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500
3x Parasite  EXP-3300 AP-300 Gil-3000
2x Parasite  EXP-2200 AP-200 Gil-2000

Scissors + Scissors(Upper) + Scissors(Lower)           EXP-2400 AP-180 Gil-2800
2x Scissors + 2x Scissors(Upper) + 2x Scissors (Lower) EXP-4800 AP-360 Gil-5600

Monster Info- Dark Dragon uses two Enemy Skills...Laser and Dragon Force. You
should Manipulate it to get both of them with ease. Dark Dragons carry Dragon
Armlets, and they can be Morphed into Vaccines. Parasites are weak against Wind
and Holy, plus they can be Morphed and robbed of Remedy. They counter Magic
with Silence, and they use the Enemy Skills Lv.5 Death and Magic Breath.

All battles with Scissors will start out with only one or two Scissors. If you
can deplete its HP enough, it will split into Scissors(Upper) and
Scissors(Lower). Scissors carries an Ether, but if you steal it before it
splits, the other Scissors will no longer carry Ether. Just before a Scissors
splits, it will use Death Scissors on the character who last attacked it,
instantly KO'ing him/her (unless you have Death protection equipped). If you
kill the Scissors(Lower) first, then Scissors(Upper) will counter the character
who killed it with Scissor Tornado, removing him/her from the battle (it will
use Scissor Tornado once its turn comes, not directly after the kill). Both
Scissors(Upper) and Scissors(Lower) carry Ether if you didn't Steal one from
the original Scissors. When you win the battle against all three Scissor forms,
you will get 2400 EXP, 180 AP, and 2800 Gil. Not bad at all. If you fight with
a group of two Scissors, you can get up to 4800 EXP, 360 AP, and 5600 Gil. Wow.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 2200-5000 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 180-360
Gil Range: 2000-5600

EXP Average: 3540
AP Average: 278
Gil Average: 3180

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 2
15-20: 3
20-25: 6
25-30: 8
30-35: 10
35-40: 10
40-45: 20
45-50: 20
50-55: 30
55-60: 30
60-65: 40
65-70: 50
70-75: 50
75-80: 60
80-85: 80
85-90: 80
90-95: 90
95-99: 80

Mastering Knights of the Round: 1,800 battles

NOTE: All of the info in the above data tables assumes that you will wait until
all of the Scissors monsters split before you kill them.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Let a Dark Dragon assault you. It even uses Ultima on
special occasions, so be careful.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

47D. THE 'OTHER' BERRY

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, Jumping Area Caverns (There are some caves that you
can explore in the platform-jumping area. This encounter area applies for those
caverns. The caves should be brownish in color.)

Preparation- If you need Ether, Remedies, or Elixirs, equip Steal. If you want
a Ribbon or a Remedy, equip Morph. If you don't want to get Knife'd to Death,
equip Death protection. If you want Magic Breath or Lv.5 Death, then equip
Enemy Skill and Manipulate. If you're thirsty, grab a...Mountain Dew?

Training Rating: ***** This assumes that you are smart enough to force all
Scissors to split before you kill them. If you want more EXP and Gil, go here
instead of the Platform-Jumping Area and the Split Point #1 Area. This is the
best area for leveling up that doesn't require Elixirs.

Monsters in this Area

Master Tonberry  HP-44444 MP-100 EXP-6000 AP-200 Gil-6800
Scissors         HP-2900  MP-88  EXP-1000 AP-90  Gil-1400

Parasite  HP-6000  MP-300 EXP-1100 AP-100 Gil-1000 [Magic Breath/Lv.5 Death]

Scissors (Upper)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]
Scissors (Lower)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]

(Sorry for the ugly format on this one, I just didn't want to extend the
Parasite's info to another line.)

Monster Groups

Master Tonberry  EXP-6000 AP-200 Gil-6800
2x Parasite      EXP-2200 AP-200 Gil-2000

Scissors + Scissors(Upper) + Scissors(Lower)           EXP-2400 AP-180 Gil-2800
2x Scissors + 2x Scissors(Upper) + 2x Scissors (Lower) EXP-4800 AP-360 Gil-5600

Monster Info- Master Tonberry carries Elixir and can be Morphed into a Ribbon.
It can use an attack called Everyone's Grudge, which does damage equal to the
victim's total number of kills multiplied by ten. For example, if Cloud has
killed 45 enemies total, and Master Tonberry uses Everyone's Grudge on him, it
will deal 450 points of damage to Cloud. Parasites are weak against Wind and
Holy, plus they can be Morphed and robbed of Remedy. They counter Magic with
Silence, and they use the Enemy Skills Lv.5 Death and Magic Breath. It's best
to Manipulate them to get the Skills that you want.

All battles with Scissors will start out with only one or two Scissors. If you
can deplete its HP enough, it will split into Scissors(Upper) and
Scissors(Lower). Scissors carries an Ether, but if you steal it before it
splits, the other Scissors will no longer carry Ether. Just before a Scissors
splits, it will use Death Scissors on the character who last attacked it,
instantly KO'ing him/her (unless you have Death protection equipped). If you
kill the Scissors(Lower) first, then Scissors(Upper) will counter the character
who killed it with Scissor Tornado, removing him/her from the battle (it will
use Scissor Tornado once its turn comes, not directly after the kill). Both
Scissors(Upper) and Scissors(Lower) carry Ether if you didn't Steal one from
the original Scissors. When you win the battle against all three Scissor forms,
you will get 2400 EXP, 180 AP, and 2800 Gil. Not bad at all. If you fight with
a group of two Scissors, you can get up to 4800 EXP, 360 AP, and 5600 Gil. Wow.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 2200-6000
AP Range: 180-360
Gil Range: 2000-6800

EXP Average: 3850
AP Average: 235
Gil Average: 4300

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 2
15-20: 3
20-25: 5
25-30: 7
30-35: 10
35-40: 10
40-45: 20
45-50: 20
50-55: 30
55-60: 30
60-65: 40
65-70: 40
70-75: 50
75-80: 60
80-85: 80
85-90: 80
90-95: 80
95-99: 70

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,130 battles

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- A Master Tonberry's Everyone's Grudge attack can deal
lethal damage, depending on the number of kills your character has racked up.
You can use this to your advantage for Limit building, provided that the attack
isn't overwhelmingly strong.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

47E. DIVIDE AND CONQUER

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, Party Split Point #1 (There is a rocky pillar-like
formation on this screen.)

Preparation- Have Enemy Skill and Manipulate equipped to gain a few old/new
Skills. Wear protection against Sadness, Slow-Numb, Silence, and Death. Morph
and Steal can be equipped for some somewhat useful Items. Put
Alexander/ChocoMog-Elemental into your Weapon.

Training Rating: ***** This sort of assumes that you will kill Scissors(Upper
and Lower) in every battle.

Monsters in this Area

Dark Dragon  HP-14000 MP-600 EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500 [Dragon Force] [Laser]
Parasite     HP-6000  MP-300 EXP-1100 AP-100 Gil-1000 [Magic Breath/Lv.5 Death]
Gargoyle     HP-2000  MP-200 EXP-800  AP-80  Gil-2500
Scissors     HP-2900  MP-88  EXP-1000 AP-90  Gil-1400

Scissors (Upper)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]
Scissors (Lower)  HP-2900 MP-88 EXP-???? AP-?? Gil-???? [Special Monster]

Monster Groups

Dark Dragon  EXP-5000 AP-350 Gil-2500
3x Parasite  EXP-3300 AP-300 Gil-3000
2x Parasite  EXP-2200 AP-200 Gil-2000

Scissors + Scissors(Upper) + Scissors(Lower)           EXP-2400 AP-180 Gil-2800
2x Scissors + 2x Scissors(Upper) + 2x Scissors (Lower) EXP-4800 AP-360 Gil-5600

Monster Info- Dark Dragon uses two Enemy Skills...Laser and Dragon Force. You
should Manipulate it to get both of them with ease. Dark Dragons carry Dragon
Armlets, and they can be Morphed into Vaccines. Parasites are weak against Wind
and Holy, plus they can be Morphed and robbed of Remedy. They counter Magic
with Silence, and they use the Enemy Skills Lv.5 Death and Magic Breath.

All battles with Scissors will start out with only one or two Scissors. If you
can deplete its HP enough, it will split into Scissors(Upper) and
Scissors(Lower). Scissors carries an Ether, but if you steal it before it
splits, the other Scissors will no longer carry Ether. Just before a Scissors
splits, it will use Death Scissors on the character who last attacked it,
instantly KO'ing him/her (unless you have Death protection equipped). If you
kill the Scissors(Lower) first, then Scissors(Upper) will counter the character
who killed it with Scissor Tornado, removing him/her from the battle (it will
use Scissor Tornado once its turn comes, not directly after the kill). Both
Scissors(Upper) and Scissors(Lower) carry Ether if you didn't Steal one from
the original Scissors. When you win the battle against all three Scissor forms,
you will get 2400 EXP, 180 AP, and 2800 Gil. Not bad at all. If you fight with
a group of two Scissors, you can get up to 4800 EXP, 360 AP, and 5600 Gil. Wow.

Encounter Rate: ***

EXP Range: 2200-5000 (See NOTE)
AP Range: 180-360
Gil Range: 2000-5600

EXP Average: 3540
AP Average: 278
Gil Average: 3180

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 2
15-20: 3
20-25: 6
25-30: 8
30-35: 10
35-40: 10
40-45: 20
45-50: 20
50-55: 30
55-60: 30
60-65: 40
65-70: 50
70-75: 50
75-80: 60
80-85: 80
85-90: 80
90-95: 90
95-99: 80

Mastering Knights of the Round: 1,800 battles

NOTE: All of the info in the above data tables assumes that you will wait until
all of the Scissors monsters split before you kill them.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Let a Dark Dragon assault you. It even uses Ultima on
blatantly special occasions, so be careful.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

48A. THE LEFT PATH OF DOOOOOOOM!!!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, the Left Path (These battles will occur in every
area of the Left Path EXCEPT the swampy/earwax-looking room in the Left Path.)

Preparation- Equip Steal and Morph. Wear protective gear against Death and
Fire. Finally, a Wind-type Materia-Elemental should be put into a Weapon.

Training Rating: *** The EXP is all well and good, but the AP is severely
lacking for a Northern Cave area.

Monsters in this Area

Master Tonberry  HP-44444 MP-100 EXP-6000 AP-200 Gil-6800
Armored Golem    HP-10000 MP-200 EXP-2500 AP-100 Gil-2680
King Behemoth    HP-18000 MP-560 EXP-2000 AP-250 Gil-950
Allemagne        HP-8000  MP-200 EXP-1300 AP-100 Gil-1360 (Level 48)

Monster Groups

Master Tonberry  EXP-6000 AP-200 Gil-6800
Armored Golem    EXP-2500 AP-100 Gil-2680
King Behemoth    EXP-2000 AP-250 Gil-950
Allemagne        EXP-1300 AP-100 Gil-1360

Monster Info- Master Tonberry carries Elixir and can be Morphed into a Ribbon.
It can use an attack called Everyone's Grudge, which does damage equal to the
victim's total number of kills multiplied by ten. For example, if Cid has
killed 888 enemies total, and Master Tonberry uses Everyone's Grudge on him, it
will deal 8,880 points of damage to Cid. Armored Golem carries Turbo Ether, and
it can be Morphed into a Guard Source. King Behemoth can counter Magic spells
with Comet 2, which is pretty powerful. Allemagne can counter Magic with Lv.4
Death, but it is weak against Wind.

Encounter Rate: ** Give or take a star in certain areas.

EXP Range: 1300-6000
AP Range: 100-250
Gil Range: 950-6800

EXP Average: 2950
AP Average: 163
Gil Average: 2948

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 2
15-20: 4
20-25: 7
25-30: 10
30-35: 10
35-40: 20
40-45: 20
45-50: 30
50-55: 30
55-60: 40
60-65: 50
65-70: 60
70-75: 70
75-80: 80
80-85: 100
85-90: 100
90-95: 110
95-99: 100

Mastering Knights of the Round: 3,070 battles

Best Spot to Train- The area with the highest Encounter Rate would be the room
that has the W-Magic and Command Counter Materias in it. The room is very
unique in appearance, so I hope you can recognize it. It is one of the rooms
next to the 'Point of No Return' (if you're familiar with that dubbed name).

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Geez, almost every enemy has a powerful attack here. A
King Behemoth's Comet2 counter can do around 1000 damage per Comet (total of
four comets). Master Tonberry's Everyone's Grudge can do damage from 0-9999,
depending on how many monsters your character has killed. An Allemagne's Lv.3
Flare will hit for around 5800 points of Fire damage to character with levels
that are divisible by three.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

49A. THE PATH OF 'RIGHT'EOUSNESS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, Right Path (Go Right at the #1 Split Point.)

Preparation- WEAR SOME RIBBONS!!! Malboro is here with his Bad Breath. Equip
Manipulate, Steal, Morph, Enemy Skill, and some protection against Poison,
Darkness, Small, Frog, Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Sleep, Death, and Cold. Put
Alexander/Wind-type Materia/Leviathan-Elemental in your Weapon.

Training Rating: ****

Monsters in this Area

Dragon Zombie HP-13000 MP-400 EXP-4000 AP-300 Gil-2800
[Pandora's Box] [ShadowFlare]

Malboro       HP-4400  MP-900 EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-100 (Level 44)
[Bad Breath]

Pollensalta   HP-4000  MP-220 EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-1000
[Angel Whisper]

Death Dealer  HP-7000  MP-400 EXP-1800 AP-200 Gil-1200
[Roulette]

Parasite      HP-6000  MP-300 EXP-1100 AP-100 Gil-1000
[Magic Breath/Lv.5 Death]

(Again, I'm SORRY about the bad format, but I couldn't fit all their data on
one line. Accept my apology, or perish!)

Monster Groups

Dragon Zombie             EXP-4000 AP-300 Gil-2800
2x Death Dealer           EXP-3600 AP-400 Gil-2400
3x Parasite               EXP-3300 AP-300 Gil-3000
2x Parasite + Pollensalta EXP-3200 AP-300 Gil-3000
Death Dealer              EXP-1800 AP-200 Gil-1200
Pollensalta               EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-1000
Malboro                   EXP-1000 AP-100 Gil-100

Monster Info- Dragon Zombie carries Cauldrons, and it can be Morphed into a
Vaccine. It can use the Enemy Skills Shadow Flare and Pandora's Box, both quite
powerful. It only seems to use Pandora's Box when it is killed, and sometimes
it doesn't want to cast it ever again (this happened to me in my last game).
However, some players have seen it use Pandora's Box more than once in a play-
through, and I have, too. Dragon Zombies are weak against Holy and Curative
Magic. Pollensalta uses the Enemy Skill Angel Whisper. You should Manipulate
her to get those two moves. She carries Hyper, and counters most attacks by
Confusing a character. Death Dealers use the Enemy Skill Roulette when they are
about to die, so you had better equip some Death protection in advance (Death
Force will do nicely, too). They carry Turbo Ether, a useful Item for all ages.
Parasites are weak against Wind and Holy, plus they can be Morphed and robbed
of Remedy. They counter Magic with Silence, and they use the Enemy Skills Lv.5
Death and Magic Breath. Malboro is weak against Water, and it uses the Enemy
Skill Bad Breath.

Encounter Rate: ** Give or take a star depending on the screen.

EXP Range: 1000-4000
AP Range: 100-400
Gil Range: 100-3000

EXP Average: 2557
AP Average: 242
Gil Average: 1929

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 3
15-20: 5
20-25: 8
25-30: 10
30-35: 20
35-40: 20
40-45: 30
45-50: 30
50-55: 40
55-60: 50
60-65: 60
65-70: 70
70-75: 80
75-80: 90
80-85: 110
85-90: 110
90-95: 130
95-99: 110

Mastering Knights of the Round: 2,070 battles

Best Spot to Train- The area with the highest Encounter Rate should be at the
very first screen that the Right Path battles take place.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- A Dragon Zombie has some powerful attacks. Its Pandora's
Box does around 2500 damage to all characters (I'm not sure if my characters
were in Sadness during this attack, so it could be more powerful). Its Shadow
Flare will do around 2700 points of damage to a character.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------

50A. FFVII'S GREATEST TRAINING GROUND

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Area- Inside Northern Cave, Swamplands on the Left Path (To get here, go Right
at the spot where your characters split up again on the Left Path. This area
looks like a swamp. Actually, in my opinion, it looks like the inside of
someone's ear...)

Preparation- Have plenty of Elixirs to fight the gracious little Magic Pots.
Equip Morph, Steal, Manipulate (if you don't have Frog Song), and have
protection against Sadness, Fire, and Death. Wind Materia-Elemental should be
allocated into your Weapon.

Training Rating: ***** This is the ultimate random encounter area. No place can
match its awesomeness.

Monsters in this Area

Magic Pot       HP-4096  MP-128 EXP-8000 AP-1000 Gil-8500 [Special Monster]
Master Tonberry HP-44444 MP-100 EXP-6000 AP-200  Gil-6800
Mover           HP-3000  MP-120 EXP-0    AP-800  Gil-30000
Allemagne       HP-8000  MP-200 EXP-1300 AP-100  Gil-1360 (Level 48)
Christopher     HP-6000  MP-200 EXP-???? AP-???  Gil-???? [Frog Song]
Gighee          HP-5500  MP-100 EXP-???? AP-???  Gil-????

Monster Groups

2x Magic Pot         EXP-16000 AP-2000 Gil-17000
Magic Pot            EXP-8000  AP-1000 Gil-8500
Master Tonberry      EXP-6000  AP-200  Gil-6800
2x Allemagne         EXP-2600  AP-200  Gil-2720
Christopher + Gighee EXP-2000  AP-140  Gil-1400
Allemagne            EXP-1300  AP-100  Gil-1360
3x Mover             EXP-0     AP-2400 Gil-90000

Monster Info- Master Tonberry carries Elixir, and it can be Morphed into a
Ribbon. It can use an attack called Everyone's Grudge, which does damage equal
to the victim's total number of kills multiplied by ten. Allemagne can counter
Magic with Lv.4 Death, but it is weak against Wind. Christopher carries Earth
Drums, and he uses the Enemy Skill called Frog Song. Gighee carries Elixir,
essential for killing Magic Pots in this area. Movers carry Turbo Ether, and
can be Morphed into Protect Rings. They drop Turbo Ether extremely often.

Magic Pots cannot be damaged until you give them an Elixir (Megalixir will not
count). They drop Turbo Ether when killed.

Encounter Rate: **

EXP Range: 0-16000
AP Range: 100-2400
Gil Range: 1360-90000

EXP Average: 5129
AP Average: 863
Gil Average: 18254

Battle Average:

1-5:   1
5-10:  1
10-15: 2
15-20: 3
20-25: 4
25-30: 6
30-35: 8
35-40: 10
40-45: 10
45-50: 20
50-55: 20
55-60: 20
60-65: 30
65-70: 30
70-75: 40
75-80: 40
80-85: 60
85-90: 60
90-95: 60
95-99: 60

Mastering Knights of the Round: 580 battles

Best Spot to Train- The swamp area farthest to the right has the higher
Encounter Rate of the two.

Limit Training:

Level X-2 Opportunity- Allemagne's Lv.3 Flare can deal up to 5800 damage if it
successfully hits a character. That's some pretty heavy stuff, huh?

END OF OVERVIEW

Did it bore you to death?




===============================================================================

II. OBTAINING LIMIT BREAKS

===============================================================================


As you may have read earlier, there are only two ways to learn Limit Breaks
through battling. The first method is to kill a certain amount of enemies to
get a new Limit Level unlocked. The second method is to use a 1-1, 2-1, or 3-1
Limit Break a certain number of times in battle to learn the second Limit of
the same Limit Level. Here is some useful information for you...

1. Level X-2 Limit Breaks can still be learned if the character is KO'd at the
end of a battle.

2. Kills toward earning a new level Limit Break after running away from the
battle do NOT count. So, you can't just have Cloud kill 4 out of 5 enemies on
the battlefield, then run away, expecting to get Meteorain at Level 7 or
something.

3. Using a level X-1 Limit Break during a battle that you plan to run from will
NOT count towards earning the second Limit Break.


Below is a list of how to get each character's new Limit Breaks, up to Limit
level 3-2. This info was taken from GideonD's Limit Break Mechanics Guide (with
his permission, of course). Check that guide out for more detail, especially on
learning how to acquire Level 4 Limit Breaks.

NOTE: When you see something like (9x), that means that you have to use the
same level Limit that many times to gain the X-2 Break. For example, to get
Cross-Slash, you must use Braver eight times to acquire it. When you see
something like (190), that means you must kill that many enemies to get that
new Limit.



=============
Cloud Strife
=============

1-1: Braver             2-1: Blade Beam  (120)       3-1: Meteorain       (200)

1-2: Cross-Slash (8x)   2-2: Climhazzard (7x)        3-2: Finishing Touch (5x)


==============
Barret Wallace
==============

1-1: Big Shot           2-1: Grenade Bomb (80)       3-1: Satellite Beam (80)

1-2: Mind Blow (9x)     2-2: Hammerblow   (8x)       3-2: Ungarmax       (6x)


==============
Tifa Lockheart
==============

1-1: Beat Rush          2-1: Waterkick  (94)         3-1: Dolphin Blow  (94)

1-2: Somersault (9x)    2-2: Meteodrive (7x)         3-2: Meteor Strike (6x)


==================
Aeris Gainsborough
==================

1-1: Healing Wind       2-1: Breath of the Earth (80) 3-1: PlanetProtector (80)

1-2: Seal Evil (9x)     2-2: Fury Brand (6x)          3-2: Pulse of Life   (5x)


========
Red XIII
========

1-1: Sled Fang          2-1: Blood Fang   (72)       3-1: Howling Moon (72)

1-2: Lunatic High (8x)  2-2: Stardust Ray (7x)       3-2: Earth Rave   (6x)


===============
Yuffie Kisaragi
===============

1-1: Greased Lightning   2-1: Landscaper (64)   3-1: Gauntlet (64)

1-2: Clear Tranquil (8x) 2-2: Bloodfest  (7x)   3-2: Doom of the Living (6x)


=========
Cait Sith
=========

1-1: Dice               2-1: Slots (40)         3-1: None

1-2: None               2-2: None               3-2: None


=================
Vincent Valentine
=================

1-1: Galian Beast       2-1: Death Gigas (42)   3-1: Hellmasker (54)

1-2: None               2-2: None               3-2: None


============
Cid Highwind
============

1-1: Boost Jump         2-1: Hyper Jump (60)    3-1: Dragon Dive (80)

1-2: Dynamite (7x)      2-2: Dragon (6x)        3-2: Big Brawl (5x)


That's pretty much it. If you hate this format, then look at another FAQ, okay?



===============================================================================

III. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

===============================================================================


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 1: Are there any major flaws in your Guide?


Joke ANSWER 1: No, for I am perfect. Begone with your soul!


ANSWER 1: Okay, I'll stop the Hollywood Squares crap. The biggest flaw in my
data is the probability of certain enemy groups appearing. It assumes that all
enemy groups will appear at an equal rate. For example, in the Corel Prison
Desert, you can encounter a Land Worm or a Cactuar. A Land Worm will give out
256 Gil, and a Cactuar will give out 10,000 Gil. The average of these two
numbers is 5,128. That would make the Gil Average 5,128. The problem is, the
Cactuar appears less than 10% of the time in that area, making the Gil Average
data quite inaccurate.

Another problem is that in some areas, the charts assume that you will go for
as much EXP/AP/Gil as possible. For example, in Corel's Grasses, you will
encounter nothing but Grangalans. My data will assume that you will force the
Grangalan to release its 'children', a Grangalan Jr. and 3x Grangalan Jr. Jr.,
before you kill the Grangalan. That way, you will earn max EXP/AP/Gil.

Yet another problem lies within my Limit Training mini-section. Some of the
damage values that enemies can deal to you can be altered dramatically
depending on how high your Defense or Magic Defense stat is. The info I gave
you was mainly from characters with a Wizard Bracelet equipped, and their
Vitality and Spirit stats weren't altered in any way.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 2: Your Guide tells me to equip protection against Fire. How can I do
that?


ANSWER 2: There are a few ways to do this. First, you can equip some sort of
Armor or Accessory that will help you to defend against a Fire elemental. For
example, a Fire Ring will Nullify Fire damage, and a Fire Armlet will absorb
Fire damage.

The second method is something that some beginners can easily miss. Using
Elemental Materia in your Armor. You need to have two linked Materia slots in
your Armor in order for Elemental to work. Put Elemental in one of the
openings. Then, look for a Materia with the word 'Fire' below the name of the
Materia. In this case, Phoenix, Ifrit, and Fire Materias all have Fire as a
bonus Elemental effect (see the word 'Fire' below the Materia name?). Put one
of those three Materia in the linked slot next to Elemental in your Armor.
Voila.

Another thing...Elemental's power grows each time it levels up. At one star
level, it will only halve elemental damage. When it gets two star levels, it
will nullify elemental damage (0 damage). Once it gets to three or four star
levels, it will absorb elemental damage.


NOTE: If you put Elemental + Fire Materia in your Weapon, that Weapon will now
have a Fire Element in your physical attacks. This can work to your advantage
or disadvantage. An enemy weak against Fire will take double the damage from
your Weapon, but an enemy that nulls or absorbs Fire will take no damage from
it (they can even absorb it for increased HP). Be careful.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 3: Your Guide tells me to equip protection against Death. How can I do
such a thing?


ANSWER 3: The first method is rather simple. Equip Armor or Accessories that
will defend against the Death status. For example, a Safety Bit Accessory will
prevent instant-Death attacks.

The second method is a little more advanced. It involves the use of another
Support(blue) Materia----Added Effect. You need to have two linked slots in
your Armor in order for Added Effect to work there. Put Added Effect in one of
the openings. Next, look for a Materia that can cause 'Death' to a target. In
this case, Odin and Destruct Materia are capable of that job. Put one of those
in the last opening, and you will be invulnerable to instant-Death attacks.


NOTE: You can also use Added Effect in your Weapon. Simply put it in one of two
linked slots, then throw in a status-inducing Materia into the other slot.
Then, your physical attacks will have a set chance of inflicting that status to
an enemy (I wonder if a Mastered Added Effect has an increased probability of
inflicting a status? Hmmm...). The Hades Materia is one of the best Materias to
use in conjunction with Added Effect. It has the following status effects that
can be used with Added Effect: Poison, Sleep, Confuse, Silence, Frog, and
Small.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 4: Where is the best place to gain EXP?


ANSWER 4: That would depend on the disc that you are on, my friend.


Top 5 EXP Areas in Disc One

1. Corral Valley, Sleeping Forest Entrance    2060 (Average EXP)
2. Mideel Area, Grasses                       1688
3. Temple of the Ancients, Mural Room         1570
4. Wutai, Dirt                                1548
5. Junon, Alarm Area                          1467


Top 5 EXP Areas in Disc Two

1. Gelnika, Hallway                           3100
2. Sector 8                                   2400
3. Mideel, Forests                            2317
4. Junon, Path (Save Point screen)            2243
5. Ancient Forest, Forest                     2200


Top 5 EXP Areas in Disc Three

1. Inside Northern Cave, Swamps               5129
2. Inside Northern Cave, Jumping Area Caves   3850
3. Northern Cave, Jumping/Party Split Area    3540
4. Gelnika, Hallway                           3100
5. Inside Northern Cave, Left Path            2950


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 5: Where is the best place to gain AP?


ANSWER 5: That would also depend on what disc you are on, my poor comrade.


Top 5 AP Areas in Disc One

1. Corral Valley, Sleeping Forest Entrance    221 (Average AP)
2. Mideel Area, Grasses                       200
3. Mideel Area, Beaches                       200
4. Mideel Area, Dirt                          160
5. Junon, Alarm Area                          143

Top 5 AP Areas in Disc Two

1. Sector 8                                   320
2. Mideel, Forests                            267
3. Corral Valley, Sleeping Forest Entrance    221
4. Gelnika, Research Room                     217
5. Gelnika, Hallway                           210

Top 5 AP Areas in Disc Three

1. Inside Northern Cave, Swamps               863
2. Northern Cave, Jumping/Party Split Area    278
3. Mideel Area, Forests                       267
4. Inside Northern Cave, Right Path           242
5. Inside Northern Cave, Jumping Area Caves   235


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 6: Where is the best place to earn some Gil?


ANSWER 6: My friend, it depends on what disc that you are on.


Top 5 Gil Areas in Disc One

1. Corel Prison, Desert**                     5128 (Average Gil)
2. Mideel Area, Beaches                       5000
3. Junon, Alarm Area                          2900
4. Mideel Area, Grasses                       2775
5. Mideel Area, Dirt                          2667

**- I really cannot consider this the top Gil Area, because the Cactuars who
dish out 10,000 Gil are too rare for this Average to be considered remotely
accurate.


Top 5 Gil Areas in Disc Two

1. Gelnika, Hallway                           7500
2. Gelnika, Research Room                     7500
3. Gelnika, Cargo Room                        6250
4. Mideel Area, Beaches                       5000
5. Sector 8                                   4900


Top 5 Gil Areas in Disc Three

1. Inside Northern Cave, Swamps               18254
2. Gelnika, Hallway                           7500
3. Gelnika, Research Room                     7500
4. Gelnika, Cargo Room                        6250
5. Mideel Area, Beaches                       5000

NOTE: The best way to earn Gil is by selling a mastered 'All', 'Speed Plus',
'Comet', or 'Magic Plus' Materia. They will net you 1.4 million Gil. 'All'
Materia requires the least amount of AP to master, so you should work on
mastering and selling some of them.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 7: What are each character's EXP Requirements to Level up?


ANSWER 7: I used Cloud's EXP Requirements for my Battle Average, as he is the
only character who I figured all of his EXP data out. In case you wanted to
know, here it is...

Cloud's EXP Requirements

1-  0
2-  6
3-  33
4-  94
5-  202
6-  372
7-  616
8-  949
9-  1384
10- 1934
11- 2614
12- 3588
13- 4610
14- 5809
15- 7200
16- 8797
17- 10614
18- 12665
19- 14965
20- 17528
21- 20368
22- 24161
23- 27694
24- 31555
25- 35759
26- 40321
27- 45255
28- 50576
29- 56299
30- 62438
31- 69008
32- 77066
33- 84643
34- 92701
35- 101255
36- 110320
37- 119910
38- 130040
39- 140725
40- 151980
41- 163820
42- 176259
43- 189312
44- 202994
45- 217320
46- 232305
47- 247963
48- 264309
49- 281358
50- 299125
51- 317625
52- 336872
53- 356881
54- 377667
55- 399245
56- 421630
57- 444836
58- 468878
59- 493771
60- 519530
61- 546170
62- 581467
63- 610297
64- 640064
65- 670784
66- 702471
67- 735141
68- 768808
69- 803488
70- 839195
71- 875945
72- 913752
73- 952632
74- 992599
75- 1033669
76- 1075856
77- 1119176
78- 1163643
79- 1209273
80- 1256080
81- 1304080
82- 1389359
83- 1441133
84- 1494178
85- 1548509
86- 1604141
87- 1661090
88- 1719371
89- 1778999
90- 1839990
91- 1902360
92- 1966123
93- 2031295
94- 2097892
95- 2165929
96- 2235421
97- 2306384
98- 2378833
99- 2452783

Each character's EXP Requirements are different, so my Battle Average lacks
accuracy in that way, too. If you ever want to find out how many total battles
it takes Cloud to get from Level 1 to Level XX, just divide the EXP Cloud will
need by the EXP Average from an area.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 8: Which should I use outside of battle? Life or Phoenix Down?


ANSWER 8: Use Life if you are near a town or place you know that has an Inn.
Use Phoenix Down when you are far away from a resting area to conserve MP for
curing and such.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 9: Outside of battle, which form of Cure is the best?


ANSWER 9: Stick with plain old Cure1. Cure2 and Cure3 will never be more
efficient outside of battle, regardless of your Magic stat.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 10: Can I change the probability of monsters appearing?


ANSWER 10: Yes. You can use two types of Materia to do so...Enemy Lure and
Enemy Away Materia. Enemy Lure will raise the Encounter Rate, and Enemy Away
will lower the Encounter Rate. These won't stack up, meaning you can't put
16 Enemy Lures on a character and expect the Encounter Rate to go through the
roof. However, a mastered Enemy Lure or Enemy Away works better than one with
no AP. Enemy Lure can be purchased at any time for BP in the Battle Arena.
It costs more in disc 1, though. Enemy Away can be won as a prize when you
race with A Rank or S Rank Chocobos.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


QUESTION 11: Is there any way to increase the amount of EXP/AP/Gil that I'm
getting?


ANSWER 11: Yes. EXP can be increased for a single character by equipping an
'EXP Plus' Materia on a character. This materia can be bought at the Gold
Saucer in late disc 2 and 3 for 2000 GP at the Gold Saucer's Wonder Square. A
lady will be selling Items in that Square, and EXP Plus will go under the name
of ?????. EXP Plus will give you 1.5x EXP at one Star Level, and 2x EXP at two
and three Star Levels.

AP can be boosted by wearing Weapons and Armor with Double or Triple Materia
Growth. Watch for those equipment, they can be extremely useful.

Gil can be increased by wearing a 'Gil Plus' Materia, which can be bought at
the Gold Saucer's Wonder Square in late disc 2 and 3. You must go to the lady
that sells Items for GP. Gil Plus will go under the name of ????, and it costs
1000 GP.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




===============================================================================

IV. CONTACT INFO

===============================================================================


I do not consider my Monster Groups information to be 100% complete. I fought
30-50 battles on each screen in the game, but that does not mean that I got
every enemy group down. During my most recent play-through of FFVII, I have
found a few more groups that weren't documented during my data-collecting game.
Most of the groups I may have missed are probably Back Attack or Side Attack
battles, as they are the rarest type of battles for the most part. If you find
any enemy groups in an area that is not in my guide, please E-mail the group to
me, and PLEASE tell me what screen they were on.

My E-mail address is Ben101388@aol.com, or you can Instant Message me at
Ben101388 or JasonColt88. Thank you for your support.




===============================================================================

V. CREDITS AND SPECIAL THANKS

===============================================================================


Here is a list of people who made this guide possible. I wish them the best of
luck in the ongoing cycle called 'Life'.


Defcon999:  When I had some doubts about the usefulness of my guide, I went
straight to him. I didn't really know anyone else that well on the Message
Boards, and I just happened to know of his reliability after getting to know
some people during my participation in a Trivia game called FFVII Survivor.
Well, I'm glad he didn't say my excerpt was crap when I e-mailed it to him.
Anyway, he helped me with suggestions to make my guide better, and even put up
with several IM conversations I had with him. I hope you weren't too annoyed by
them, Deuce. Sorry I didn't get to use your column idea, it would just be too
time consuming to re-format this baby at the moment. Many thanks.

KADFC:  He gave me permission to use his EXP Requirements for Cloud, very
handy. In the end, I only needed a few of his numbers, as I pretty much found
out Levels 8-99 all by my lonesome (I wish I could have comprehended Terence's
formula). Still, thank you for letting me use the stuff. I'll try to get some
more characters done for ya in return. Maybe...

GideonD:  He saved me hours of gametime by letting me use his Limit Break
Mechanics data from his FAQ. Thanks a LOT, man. This Guide would have still
been in development if it weren't for you.

SomeRandomGuy:  He gave me the Mystery Ninja's EXP/AP/Gil values for each level
she was on. You also saved me a load of time. Though you may be just some
random guy, you sure do seem to stand out sometimes. Gracias, senior.

FFVII General Board:  Thanks for telling me how much HP/MP Vlakorados and
Master Tonberry have. I couldn't have figured that out quickly without you.

CJayC:  Thanks for GameFAQs. Now I'm not so bored anymore. The boards and FAQs
are very reliable for the most part.

Aaron:  You're the only cousin of mine that shares similar gaming interests.
You sort of inspired me to make a FAQ for a game. See ya around.

Mittens:  You are the BEST. CAT. EVER.

My Family:  Yup. You guys are awesome. Especially you, Brian. Without your
room, I could never get to the computer. Love you all (in a very normal way).



                                    FIN